

               FORWARDS SORT:              

A Gentleman, courtier.
A Norwegian Captain.
A Priest.
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
A combination and a form indeed
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
A double blessing is a double grace;
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A face without a heart,'
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
A noise within.
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
A room in the Castle.
A sable silver'd.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
A scullion!  
A second time I kill my husband dead
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
A station like the herald Mercury
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
A table and flagons of wine on it.  
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
A very noble youth. Mark.
A very, very- pajock.
A villain kills my father; and for that,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
ACT I. Scene I.
ACT III. Scene I.
ACT IV. Scene I.
ACT V. Scene I.
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
According to the phrase or the addition
Act II. Scene I.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Affront Ophelia.  
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loves.
Against the which a moiety competent
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
Alack, and fie for shame!
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
All flaxen was his poll.
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
All given to mine ear.
All in the morning bedtime,
All may be well.                                  He kneels.
All my smooth body.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
All. Gentlemen!
All. Lights, lights, lights!
All. No, let's come in!
All. Our duty to your honour.  
All. Treason! treason!
All. We will, we will!
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
Among a mineral of metals base,
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
And I a maid at your window,
And I am sick at heart.
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
And after we will both our judgments join
And all we mourn for.  
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
And bear it to the chapel.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
And break your own neck down.
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And call it accident.
And call the noblest to the audience.
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
And carriage of the article design'd,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And do such bitter business as the day
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
And dupp'd the chamber door,
And each particular hair to stand an end
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And for his death no wind
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especially,
And foreign mart for implements of war;
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation.
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
And hath abatements and delays as many  
And hath shipped me intil the land,
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And he to England shall along with you.
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
And hears it roar beneath.
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And his sandal shoon.
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
And hurt my brother.
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And let him know so.
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
And let them know both what we mean to do
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And let us once again assail your ears,
And live the purer with the other half,
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And makes each petty artire in this body
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many such-like as's of great charge,
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
And never come mischance between us twain!
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And not have strew'd thy grave.
And not where I had aim'd them.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And our affairs from England come too late.  
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
And passion in the gods.'
And pious action we do sugar o'er  
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And prey on garbage.
And prologue to the omen coming on,
And put it in his pocket!  
And reason panders will.
And recks not his own rede.
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
And sure I am two men there are not living
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
And tell you what I know.
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there assume some other, horrible form
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
And these few precepts in thy memory
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And to the last bended their light on me.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And vanish'd from our sight.
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we cast away moan.
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not wrong it.
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And with no less nobility of love
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And, like a man to double business bound,
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Answer, and think upon this business.
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Appears before them and with solemn march
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
Are joyfully return'd.
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
As England was his faithful tributary,
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As are companions noted and most known
As by lot, God wot,'
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As day does to your eye.
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
As fits a king's remembrance.
As from the body of contraction plucks  
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
As he in his particular act and place
As he is very potent with such spirits,
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
As if I had never been such.
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it some impartment did desire
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
As infinite as man may undergo-  
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it doth well appear unto our state,
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
As level as the cannon to his blank,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
As low as to the fiends!
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
As of a father; for let the world take note
As oft as any passion under heaven
As one incapable of her own distress,
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
As therein are set down.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
As to expend your time with us awhile
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
As to peace-parted souls.
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
As will not leave their tinct.
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
At his head a grass-green turf,
At his heels a stone.
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
Attendants].
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Be you and I behind an arras then.
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Before You visit him, to make inquire
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Being a thing immortal as itself?  
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
Ber. 'Tis here!
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
Ber. He.
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Ber. I have seen nothing.
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Ber. It would be spoke to.
Ber. Last night of all,
Ber. Long live the King!
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Ber. Say-
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Ber. Sit down awhile,
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Ber. Well, good night.
Ber. Who's there.?
Bernardo, officer.
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
Both. Longer, longer.
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
Both. My lord, we will not.
Both. We will haste us.
Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
Both. We'll wait upon you.  
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
But I do prophesy th' election lights  
But I have that within which passeth show-
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But age with his stealing steps
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
But better look'd into, he truly found
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
But come!
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But do not go with it!
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But he's an arrant knave.
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
But keep a farm and carters.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
But let me hear from you.
But let that go.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
But never doubt I love.
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
But that I know love is begun by time,
But that the dread of something after death-
But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
But to confront the visage of offence?
But to my mind, though I am native here  
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But truly I do fear it.
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
But what we do determine oft we break.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
But you must know, your father lost a father;
But you shall hear. Thus:
But you'll be secret?
But, as we often see, against some storm,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But, orderly to end where I begun,  
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
By Cock, they are to blame.
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
By his cockle bat and' staff
By indirections find directions out.
By laboursome petition, and at last
By letters congruing to that effect,
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
By this encompassment and drift of question
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
Can you advise me?
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
Claudius, King of Denmark.
Clown digs and] sings.
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
Clown. (Sings)
Clown. (sings)
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
Clown. E'en that.
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
Clown. For no man, sir.
Clown. For none neither.
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
Clown. Mine, sir.
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
Clown. To't.
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Colours, and Attendants.
Come hither, gentlemen,
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
Come short of what he did.
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come, some music!
Come.
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Consent to swear.
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Cornelius, courtier.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Could not so mope.
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did nothing.
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Drabbing. You may go so far.
Dramatis Personae
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Elsinore.
Elsinore. A churchyard.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
English Ambassadors.
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Enter Ghost again.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Enter Horatio.
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King and Polonius.
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Laertes with others.
Enter Lucianus.
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.  
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.  
Enter Prologue.
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Enter Queen.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz.
Enter Sailors.
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Enter a Lord.
Enter a Messenger with letters.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter four or five Players.
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
Enter the Players with recorders.  
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Exeunt
Exeunt Attendants.]
Exeunt Gentlemen.
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
Exeunt Players.
Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exit Attendant.]
Exit First Player.]
Exit Gentleman.]
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Horatio.
Exit Horatio.]  
Exit Lord.]
Exit Messenger.
Exit Polonius.]
Exit Queen.]
Exit Reynaldo.
Exit Second Clown.]  
Exit [Polonius].
Exit [Polonius].  
Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Fare you well, my dove!
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Farewell, dear mother.
Farewell.
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Flourish for the Players.
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For England.
For Hecuba!
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
For and a shrouding sheet;
For art and exercise in your defence,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
For by the image of my cause I see
For every man hath business and desire,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
For he himself is subject to his birth.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
For husband shalt thou-
For if the King like not the comedy,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For in the fatness of these pursy times
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
For nature crescent does not grow alone
For out o' doors he went without their help
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
For the supply and profit of our hope,
For they are actions that a man might play;
For this effect defective comes by cause.
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
For what we know must be, and is as common
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
For your desire to know what is between us,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
For. Go softly on.
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
Fort. Let four captains
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Fort. Where is this sight?
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
Fran. Bernardo?
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Fran. Give you good night.
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Francisco, a soldier
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
From another one?
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Get you a place.
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
Ghost beckons.]  
Ghost cries under the stage.
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
Ghost. I find thee apt;
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
Ghost. Mark me.
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Ghost. Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
Give him the cup.
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Give me my father!
Give me one poor request.
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
Give us the foils. Come on.
Give you good night.                                   Exit.
Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Gives a paper.]
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Giving to you no further personal power
Go on. I'll follow thee.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to thy deathbed;
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
God bless you, sir!
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
Gonzago'?
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Good night, mother.
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Grapples with him].
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
Guil. But we both obey,
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Guil. Prison, my lord?  
Guil. The King, sir-
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Guil. There are the players.
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
Guil. What, my lord?
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
Guildenstern, courtier.
HAMLET.'
HAMLET.'
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
Ham.   A whole one I!
Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Ham. Are you fair?
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
Ham. As th'art a man,
Ham. As woman's love.
Ham. At supper.
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Ham. Between who?
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Ham. But where was this?
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Ham. Buzz, buzz!
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
Ham. Come on, sir.
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Ham. Do not believe it.
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Ham. Ecstasy?
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Ham. For England?
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
Ham. From top to toe?
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Ham. Good.  
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
Ham. He will stay till you come.
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Ham. Hold off your hands!
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
Ham. How came he mad?
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Ham. How does the Queen?
Ham. How if I answer no?
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
Ham. How strangely?
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
Ham. I do beseech you.
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
Ham. I pray you.
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Ham. I will watch to-night.
Ham. I will.
Ham. I would I had been there.
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Ham. If she should break it now!
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
Ham. In happy time.
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Ham. Into my grave?
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
Ham. Is't possible?
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Ham. It waves me still.
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Ham. Judgment!
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Ham. Murther?
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Ham. My fate cries out
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
Ham. Nay, but to live
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. No, by this bad.  
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
Ham. No, not I!
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Ham. Nothing.
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Ham. O God!
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
Ham. Of him, sir.
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Ham. One.
Ham. Or like a whale.
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Ham. Pale or red?
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Ham. Safely stow'd.
Ham. Saw? who?
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
Ham. She well instructs me.
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
Ham. So be it!
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
Ham. Such an act
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Ham. That is Laertes,
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
Ham. The King my father?
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Ham. These tedious old fools!
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Ham. This?
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ham. Up from my cabin,
Ham. Upon my sword.
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Ham. Upon what ground?
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
Ham. Very well, my lord.
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
Ham. What call you the carriages?
Ham. What did you enact?
Ham. What hour now?
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Ham. What woman then?
Ham. What's his weapon?
Ham. What's the matter now?
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
Ham. What?
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Ham. Who, I?
Ham. Whose was it?
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
Ham. Why he more than another?
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Ham. Why?
Ham. With drink, sir?
Ham. Words, words, words.
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ham. You are welcome.
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
Haply the seas, and countries different,
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Have by the very cunning of the scene
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
He answers:
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
He closes with you in this consequence:
He falls to such perusal of my face
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
He is dead and gone;
He is gone, he is gone,
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
He never gave commandment for their death.
He never will come again.
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
He] sleeps.
Hecuba.
Help, help, ho!
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Here in the lobby.
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
Here stooping to your clemency,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Here's to thy health.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
High on a stage be placed to the view;
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
His access to me.
His beard was as white as snow,
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
His liberty is full of threats to all-
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
His silence will sit drooping.
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
Hold you the watch to-night?
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
Hor. 'Tis here!
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
Hor. A piece of him.
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
Hor. Ay, my lord.
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Hor. Do not, my lord!
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Hor. E'en so.
Hor. Friends to this ground.
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
Hor. Half a share.
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
Hor. Heaven secure him!
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Hor. How was this seal'd?
Hor. I beseech you.
Hor. I did very well note him.
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Hor. In faith,
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Hor. Is it a custom?
Hor. Is't possible?
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Hor. It might, my lord.
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
Hor. Let them come in.
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
Hor. Most constantly.
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Hor. My lord, I did;
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
Hor. Nay, very pale.
Hor. Never believe it.
Hor. No, by no means!
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Hor. Not when I saw't.
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Hor. That can I.
Hor. That is most certain.
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Hor. Well, my lord.
Hor. Well, sit we down,
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Hor. What is it you will see?
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
Hor. What news, my lord?
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
How all occasions do inform against me
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
How does your honour for this many a day?
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
How in my words somever she be shent,
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
How now O What hath befall'n?
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
How now, sweet queen?
How now? What news?
How should I your true-love know
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
How these things came about. So shall You hear
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
I be so able as now.
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I could not but by her. The other motive
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
I did repel his letters and denied
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
I do not know from what part of the world
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
I ha't!
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I have in quick determination
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I have sworn't.
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
I never gave you aught.
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
I pray you go with me.
I pray you, now receive them.
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
I shall not look upon his like again.
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I should have fatted all the region kites
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
I would know that.
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
I'll rant as well as thou.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
I'll visit you.
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
If his chief good and market of his time
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
If there be any good thing to be done,
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
If you desire to know the certainty
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Importing the surrender of those lands
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
In censure of his seeming.
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
In filial obligation for some term
In further evil?
In general synod take away her power;
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
In honourable fashion.
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
In neither aught, or in extremity.
In noise so rude against me?
In obstinate condolement is a course
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the dead vast and middle of the night
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In youth when I did love, did love,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Into a tow'ring passion.
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged process of my death
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Is not to stir without great argument,
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is thought-sick at the act.
Is very cunning in.
It came to pass, as most like it was.'
It could not move thus.  
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It had been so with us, had we been there.
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
It is most retrograde to our desire;
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
It lifted up it head and did address
It may be death.
It sends some precious instance of itself
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
King. A Norman.
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
King. Alas, alas!
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
King. At supper? Where?
King. Ay, Hamlet.
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
King. Bring him before us.
King. But how hath she
King. But where is he?
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
King. Conceit upon her father.
King. Dead.
King. Do you think 'tis this?
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
King. Give me some light! Away!
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
King. Good Laertes,
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
King. He made confession of you;
King. How do you, pretty lady?
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
King. How long hath she been thus?
King. How may we try it further?
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
King. I do not think't.
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
King. If it be so, Laertes
King. It falls right.
King. It likes us well;
King. It shall be so.
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
King. Let him demand his fill.
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
King. Let's further think of this,
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
King. Not that I know.
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
King. O Gertrude, come away!
King. O heavy deed!
King. O, for two special reasons,
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
King. Our son shall win.
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
King. Pluck thein asunder.
King. Pretty Ophelia!
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
King. So you shall;
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
King. The doors are broke.
King. The very same.
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
King. We will try it.
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
King. Well, we shall sift him.
King. What do you call the play?
King. What dost thou mean by this?  
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
King. Where is Polonius?
King. Who shall stay you?
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
King. Why, now You speak
King. Will you know them then?
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
Laer. A Norman was't?
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
Laer. Ay my lord,
Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
Laer. Come, one for me.
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
Laer. Have at you now!
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
Laer. I will do't!
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
Laer. Know you the hand?
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
Laer. Let this be so.
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Laer. Must there no more be done?
Laer. My dread lord,
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
Laer. My will, not all the world!
Laer. No.
Laer. None but his enemies.
Laer. O, fear me not!
Laer. O, treble woe
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
Laer. Think it no more.
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
Laer. Well, again!
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Laer. Where is my father?
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
Laer. Why ask you this?
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Laertes before you fall to play.  
Laertes falls.]
Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
Laertes, son to Polonius.
Larded all with sweet flowers;
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Last, and as such containing as all these,
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Leaps in the grave.
Leave us.
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Let me be no assistant for a state,  
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Look you, I'll go pray.
Looking before and after, gave us not
Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Lords Attendant.
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Mar. 'Tis gone!
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Mar. Is it not like the King?
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
Mar. It is offended.
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
Mar. Look with what courteous action
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
Mar. My good lord!
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Mar. No, it is struck.
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Mar. O, wonderful!
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
Marcellus, Officer.
Marcellus, officer.
Marcellus?
March within.]
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Mark you,
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
May give his saying deed; which is no further
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
May sweep to my revenge.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
Methought it was very sweet;
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
More relative than this. The play's the thing
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words?
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
Most free in his reply.
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most throughly for my father.
Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Must render up myself.
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
My custom always of the afternoon,
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
My father- methinks I see my father.
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
My head should be struck off.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
My lord, not I.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
My uncle?
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
Nay, come, let's go together.  
Near Elsinore.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Never departed more.
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No more, sweet Hamlet!
No more.
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
No, no, he is dead;  
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
No.
None wed the second but who killed the first.
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Not shriving time allow'd.
Now I am alone.  
Now falls on Priam.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
Now wears his crown.
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Now, out of this-
O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
O heavy burthen!
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
O most pernicious woman!
O royal knavery!), an exact command,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
O thou vile king,
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
O, ho!
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
O, say!
O, speak!
O, step between her and her fighting soul
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
O, vengeance!
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Of bell and burial.
Of blue Olympus.
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Of general assault.  
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Of him that brought them.
Of his affection to me.
Of his behaviour.
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Of his true state.
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Of man and country-
Of mighty opposites.
Of mine own eyes.  
Of my true mother.
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
Of the unworthiest siege.
Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
On plots and errors happen.
On such regards of safety and allowance
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
One fair daughter, and no more,
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
One word more, good lady.
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Oph. (Sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Oph. At home, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Oph. Do you doubt that?
Oph. Good my lord,
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
Oph. I was the more deceived.
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
Oph. My lord?
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Oph. No more but so?
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Oph. No, my lord.
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Oph. Pray you mark.
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
Oph. Still better, and worse.
Oph. The King rises.
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
Oph. What is, my lord?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
Oph. What means your lordship?
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Ophelia,'-
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Or for some frontier?
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
Or like a creature native and indued
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Or not at all.
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Osr. Nothing neither way.
Osr. Of Laertes?
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Osr. Sir?
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Osric, courtier.
Other. But is this law?
Other. Go to!
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
Other. Was he a gentleman?
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
Other. Why, he had none.
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out of his lunacies.
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Over the nasty sty!
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Passing through nature to eternity.  
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Perpend.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
Play something like the murther of my father
Play. 'Anon he finds him,
Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
Play. Ay, my lord.
Play. Ay, my lord.
Play. What speech, my good lord?
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
Player. I warrant your honour.
Players.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Pol. 'Tis most true;
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Pol. Come, sirs.
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Pol. Farewell!
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
Pol. Give o'er the play.
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
Pol. Honest, my lord?
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Pol. I have, my lord.
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
Pol. Mad for thy love?  
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Pol. Not I, my lord.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
Pol. This business is well ended.
Pol. This is too long.
Pol. Upon my honour-
Pol. Very like a whale.
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
Pol. What do you think of me?
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
Pol. What said he?
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Polonius.
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
Pours the poison in his ears.
Pray you be round with him.
Prepare to play.
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Priest. No more be done.
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Pursued my life.
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Puts down the skull.]
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Queen. Alack,
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Queen. As kill a king?
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Queen. Ay, amen!
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Queen. But not by him!
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
Queen. Did he receive you well?
Queen. Did you assay him  
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Queen. Have you forgot me?
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
Queen. How fares my lord?
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
Queen. I shall obey you;
Queen. I will not speak with her.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Queen. If it be,
Queen. Let her come in.  
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Queen. More matter, with less art.
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Queen. No more!
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Queen. O my son, what theme?  
Queen. O, confound the rest!
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
Queen. So he does indeed.
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Queen. This is mere madness;
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
Queen. What shall I do?
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Queen. What would she have?
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
Queen. it may be, very like.
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
Reads.]
Reads] the letter.
Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Receiv'd his love?
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Repast them with my blood.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Requite him for your father.  
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Retires with Horatio.]  
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
Rey. But, my good lord-
Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
Rey. I shall, my lord.
Rey. I will, my lord.
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
Rey. My lord, I have.
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Rey. Well, my lord.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rome-
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
Ros. Believe what?
Ros. Both your Majesties
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
Ros. Good my lord!
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Ros. My most dear lord!
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Ros. No indeed are they not.  
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
Ros. Then is the world one.
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Ros. To what end, my lord?
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Rosencrantz, courtier.
Rough-hew them how we will-
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
SCENE.- Elsinore.
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
Scatters flowers.]
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene V.
Scene V.
Scene VI.
Scene VII.
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
See you now-
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
Should have a back or second, that might hold
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
Sir, in this audience,
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
So bloodily hast struck.
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
So excellent a king, that was to this
So far from cheer and from your former state.
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
So horridly to shake our disposition
So levied as before, against the Polack;
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
So much as from occasion you may glean,  
So much from th' understanding of himself,
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So oft it chances in particular men
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
So, by my former lecture and advice,
So, proceed you.
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
Some little time; so by your companies
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
Speak loudly for him.
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
Speak to her, Hamlet.
Speak to me.
Speak to me.  
Speak, man.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
Spreads his arms.
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Such was the very armour he had on
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear.
Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
THE END
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Th' effect of what I wrote?
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Than fly to others that we know not of?
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Than to entreaty.
Than your particular demands will touch it.
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I might be the organ.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
That I must call't in question.
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That are so fortified against our story,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
That both the world, I give to negligence,
That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
That capability and godlike reason
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
That ever I was born to set it right!
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
That has no relish of salvation in't-
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That he is open to incontinency.
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
That he which hath your noble father slain
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
That makes calamity of so long life.
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
That might your nature, honour, and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
That our devices still are overthrown;
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That show of such an exercise may colour
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That thus he suffers for.
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would,
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
That was and is the question of these wars.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
That we find out the cause of this effect-
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
That, if again this apparition come,
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
The Devil himself.
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
The King is a thing-
The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
The Queen's closet.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
The bell then beating one-
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The cock crows.
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
The form of plausive manners, that these men
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
The hart ungalled play;
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
The head is not more native to the heart,
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The instant burst of clamour that she made
The inward service of the mind and soul
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The leperous distilment; whose effect
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
The need we have to use you did provoke
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
The origin and commencement of his grief
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
The rather, if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
The safety and health of this whole state,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The tedious day with sleep.
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
The triumph of his pledge.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
The unseen good old man.
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The violence of either grief or joy
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
The which he loved passing well.'
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
There is a play to-night before the King.
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There lives within the very flame of love
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
There with fantastic garlands did she come
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
There, my lord.
Therefore I have entreated him along,  
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
These hands are not more like.
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
They shall go far with little.  
They swear.]
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
This above all- to thine own self be true,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
This grave shall have a living monument.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This man shall set me packing.
This marvel to you.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
This night to play before him.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
This presence knows,
This present object made probation.
This realm dismantled was  
This something-settled matter in his heart,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
This sudden sending him away must seem
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
This warlike volley.
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Thou know'st already.
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
Throws up [another skull].
Throws up a skull.]
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
Thus didest thou.'
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus runs the world away.
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
Thy natural magic and dire property
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
Tis now the very witching time of night,
Tis strange.
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
To England send him; or confine him where
To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
To any pastime?
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
To be commanded.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
To be your Valentine.
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To both your honours.
To business with the King, more than the scope
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
To exploit now ripe in my device,
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
To give it due content.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
To give the world assurance of a man.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
To give these mourning duties to your father;
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
To hear and see the matter.
To hear him so inclin'd.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
To heaven.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
To his confine; and of the truth herein
To his unmast'red importunity.
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
To keep those many many bodies safe
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
To lay our service freely at your feet,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To let this canker of our nature come
To let you know of it.
To make it truster of your own report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
To mine own room again; making so bold  
To muddy death.
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
To offer it the show of violence;
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To put an antic disposition on),  
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
To show my duty in your coronation,  
To show us so much gentry and good will
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
To take him in the purging of his soul,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
To tell us this.
To the ambassadors of England gives
To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
To the unsatisfied.
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
To those of mine!
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To you alone.
To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
To youth and liberty.
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Together with that fair and warlike form
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
Treachery! Seek it out.
Truly deliver.
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
Two Clowns, gravediggers.
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
Unless things mortal move them not at all)
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Unto our climature and countrymen.
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon whose property and most dear life
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Voltemand, courtier.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
We cannot get from him.  
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
We may of their encounter frankly judge
We must with all our majesty and skill
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
We should profane the service of the dead
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
We would not understand what was most fit,
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Welcome, my good friends.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
What I have said to you.
What company, at what expense; and finding
What does this mean, my lord?
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
What is the issue of the business there.  
What is the matter?
What is the reason that you use me thus?
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
What majesty should be, what duty is,
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
What think you on't?
What thou hast said to me.
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
What warlike noise is this?
What we two nights have seen.
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
What, is Horatio there ?
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
When it prov'd otherwise.?
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When second husband let me be accurst!
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
When thou liest howling.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Where is your son?
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Where should We have our thanks?
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which now goes too free-footed.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Which was declining on the milky head
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
Who hath reliev'd you?
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Who is't that can inform me?
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
Whose violent property fordoes itself  
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Why does the drum come hither?
Why seems it so particular with thee?
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
Why to a public count I might not go
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Will not debate the question of this straw.
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
Will you be rul'd by me?
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Winner and loser?
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
With all my imperfections on my head.
With all my love I do commend me to you;
With all the strength and armour of the mind
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
With sore distraction. What I have done
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
With this regard their currents turn awry
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
With true-love showers.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
With variable objects, shall expel
With which she followed my poor father's body
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Within the centre.
Without debatement further, more or less,
Without more motive, into every brain
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Yes, faith, heartily.
Yet I,
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
You cannot call it love; for at your age
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance?
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You go not till I set you up a glass
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
You know the wager?
You laying these slight sullies on my son
You mainly were stirr'd up.
You must not put another scandal on him,
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
You promis'd me to wed.'
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
Young men will do't if they come to't
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think.
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
a thing to you from his Majesty.
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
again.
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
against their own succession.
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
amazement and admiration.
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
and then, you know,
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
are shot off.  
are unwrung.
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
be otherwise.
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
bellow for revenge.
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
by William Shakespeare
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
carpenter?
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
carrying torches.
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
city? Are they so follow'd?
clouts.
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
dare scarce come thither.
defence?
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
died. They say he made a good end.
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
discourse to your beauty.
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
discretion.
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
end.
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
ere you had done.
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
eyes. Prithee no more!
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
father?
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
favours?
fay, I cannot reason.
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
for your succession in Denmark?
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
further trade with us?
gentleman.'
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
grave-making?
grave.]
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
hath sent me to you.
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
have not the skill.
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
have sent for you.
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
he.
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
help to hasten them?
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
his love.
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
hither?
hold up Adam's profession.
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
humanity so abominably.
i' th' university, you say?
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
innovation.
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
insert in't, could you not?
into England.
into a toil?
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
it is but a shadow's shadow.
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
it means, say you this:
it not?
it. Adieu.
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
kill'd me.
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
know a hawk from a handsaw.
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
life,
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
liquor.
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
love passing well.
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
make you at Elsinore?
make you ready.
man is twice a child.
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
master's daughter.
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
me, whether you were sent for or no.  
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
might it not?
mind.
mine.
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
more, ha?
much approve me. Well, sir?  
musty.
my leave of you.
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
not off.
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
not so wildly from my affair.
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
not.
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
of a king?
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
on't.
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
philosophy could find it out.
phrase.
pick'd out of ten thousand.
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
plunge him into far more choler.
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
pound! Didst perceive?
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
pray You Pass with your best violence;
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
purpose, confess thyself-
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
rawer breath
read, my lord?
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
repair hither and say you are not fit.
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
say-
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
seeks her own salvation?
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
sense.
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
shall be the end of my business.
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
shame and the odd hits.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
skull, the King's jester.
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
spent.
stopping a bunghole?
strumpet. What news ?
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
take longer time.
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
tell me one thing.
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
tenants.
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
the King.
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
the guts of a beggar.
the only men.
the players ready.
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
the puppets dallying.
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
the stair, into the lobby.
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
they'll tell all.
they?
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
thirty years.
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
tragedians of the city.
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
very liberal conceit.
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
waterfly?
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
went to cuffs in the question.
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
what part a gentleman would see.
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
where my abridgment comes.
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
which was the model of that Danish seal;
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
within 's two hours.
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
world.
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
would perhaps trouble a woman.
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
you cannot play upon me.
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
you nine year.
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
your bounty. Take them in.
your friend.
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
your table!
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien


               BACKWARDS SORT:             

THE END
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene VII.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene VI.
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
ACT III. Scene I.
Act II. Scene I.
ACT I. Scene I.
ACT IV. Scene I.
ACT V. Scene I.
Ham.   A whole one I!
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Hor. That can I.
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
Ham. Who, I?
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
Yet I,
My lord, not I.
Ham. No, not I!
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
HAMLET.'
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
HAMLET.'
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene IV.
Scene V.
Scene V.
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
For Hecuba!
Hecuba.
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
more, ha?
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.  
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
Ophelia,'-
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Affront Ophelia.  
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
King. Pretty Ophelia!
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Come, some music!
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Ham. No, by this bad.  
King. Dead.
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
A second time I kill my husband dead
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
We should profane the service of the dead
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
No, no, he is dead;  
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Which was declining on the milky head
With all my imperfections on my head.
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Ham. How came he mad?
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Go to thy deathbed;
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
To be commanded.
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Mar. It is offended.
Pol. This business is well ended.
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Stick fiery off indeed.
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
A combination and a form indeed
To show yourself your father's son in deed
You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
Queen. So he does indeed.
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
King. O heavy deed!
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
To the unsatisfied.
I did repel his letters and denied
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Her mood will needs be pitied.
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Ham. Pale or red?
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Which now goes too free-footed.
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Or like a creature native and indued
Oph. I was the more deceived.
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
You promis'd me to wed.'
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Let in the maid, that out a maid
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
Hor. My lord, I did;
Come short of what he did.
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
Hor. How was this seal'd?
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
man is twice a child.
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
To mine own room again; making so bold  
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
To what I shall unfold.
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Should have a back or second, that might hold
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
I do not know from what part of the world
Laer. My will, not all the world!
world.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
In the corrupted currents of this world
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
That treason can but peep to what it would,
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
Laer. Know you the hand?
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
But to recover of us, by strong hand
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
If by direct or by collateral hand
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
And hath shipped me intil the land,
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
into England.
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
For England.
Ham. For England?
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
Put your dread pleasures more into command
O royal knavery!), an exact command,
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
pick'd out of ten thousand.
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
died. They say he made a good end.
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
end.
your friend.
And each particular hair to stand an end
Perpend.
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
And carriage of the article design'd,
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
If circumstances lead me, I will find
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
To hear him so inclin'd.
mind.
Take these again; for to the noble mind
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
With all the strength and armour of the mind
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
And for his death no wind
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
Are joyfully return'd.
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
And, like a man to double business bound,
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
But better look'd into, he truly found
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
It waves you to a more removed ground.
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
We go to gain a little patch of ground
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
Hor. Friends to this ground.
Ham. Upon what ground?
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Ham. O God!
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
Ham. Good.  
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
That to the use of actions fair and good
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
Repast them with my blood.
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
Elsinore. A churchyard.
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
A sable silver'd.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
Enter a Lord.
Exit Lord.]
Laer. My dread lord,
Mar. My good lord!
Play. What speech, my good lord?
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
Rey. But, my good lord-
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
Ros. My most dear lord!
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Oph. My lord?
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Pol. Not I, my lord.
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
read, my lord?
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
Ros. To what end, my lord?
Oph. Good my lord,
Ros. Good my lord!
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Oph. At home, my lord.
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
There, my lord.
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Pol. I have, my lord.
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
Rey. I shall, my lord.
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Hor. Well, my lord.
Rey. Well, my lord.
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Ham. Very well, my lord.
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
Rey. I will, my lord.
What does this mean, my lord?
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
Guil. Prison, my lord?  
Oph. No, my lord.
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
Queen. How fares my lord?
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
Oph. What is, my lord?
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
Hor. What news, my lord?
Guil. What, my lord?
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. It might, my lord.
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Hor. Do not, my lord!
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
Pol. Honest, my lord?
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Laer. Ay my lord,
Hor. Ay, my lord.
Play. Ay, my lord.
Play. Ay, my lord.
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
Ham. Upon my sword.
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
Swear by my sword.
Swear by my sword.
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
The ratifiers and props of every word,
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Not shriving time allow'd.
city? Are they so follow'd?
Ham. Safely stow'd.
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
Ber. He.
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
Dramatis Personae
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
Queen. If it be,
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
But this eternal blazon must not be
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
I have a voice and precedent of peace
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
He falls to such perusal of my face
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Get you a place.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
As he in his particular act and place
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
A double blessing is a double grace;
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
So, by my former lecture and advice,
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
To exploit now ripe in my device,
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
O, vengeance!
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
Her brother is in secret come from France;
Your leave and favour to return to France;
As fits a king's remembrance.
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
You do remember all the circumstance?
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
On such regards of safety and allowance
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
It will be laid to us, whose providence
defence?
For art and exercise in your defence,
But to confront the visage of offence?
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
That both the world, I give to negligence,
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Sir, in this audience,
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
To offer it the show of violence;
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
pray You Pass with your best violence;
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
He closes with you in this consequence:
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
The instant burst of clamour that she made
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
The lists, and full proportions are all made
A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
And recks not his own rede.
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
Why seems it so particular with thee?
For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
Go on. I'll follow thee.
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
For by the image of my cause I see
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
what part a gentleman would see.
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
Hor. What is it you will see?
To keep those many many bodies safe
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
That makes calamity of so long life.
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
Upon whose property and most dear life
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
life,
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Pursued my life.
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
And prey on garbage.
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
You cannot call it love; for at your age
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
Ghost cries under the stage.
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
The triumph of his pledge.
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
We may of their encounter frankly judge
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
Of the unworthiest siege.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Tis strange.
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
bellow for revenge.
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
May sweep to my revenge.
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
And many such-like as's of great charge,
Pol. What said he?
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
King. But how hath she
King. But where is he?
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
he.
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
When he himself might his quietus make
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
These hands are not more like.
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
Queen. it may be, very like.
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
King. The doors are broke.
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
The need we have to use you did provoke
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
Ham. Or like a whale.
Pol. Very like a whale.
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Hor. Nay, very pale.
I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
your table!
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
Ham. Is't possible?
Hor. Is't possible?
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
My uncle?
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
Ber. Sit down awhile,
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
As to expend your time with us awhile
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
stopping a bunghole?
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
They shall go far with little.  
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
And set a double varnish on the fame
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Alack, and fie for shame!
By Cock, they are to blame.
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
That hath in it no profit but the name.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
King. The very same.
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
kill'd me.
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Queen. O my son, what theme?  
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
Can you advise me?
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Pol. What do you think of me?
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
I pray you go with me.
To punish me with this, and this with me,
All in the morning bedtime,
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
take longer time.
To any pastime?
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
If his chief good and market of his time
You must not take for fire. From this time
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
But that I know love is begun by time,
Ham. In happy time.
Ghost. Mark me.
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Who is't that can inform me?
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
you cannot play upon me.
And to the last bended their light on me.
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
Come.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
Rome-
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
There with fantastic garlands did she come
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
To let this canker of our nature come
Ham. You are welcome.
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
That, if again this apparition come,
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
But come!
Ham. He will stay till you come.
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
What thou hast said to me.
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
Speak to me.  
Speak to me.
Of his affection to me.
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
His access to me.
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
Laer. Come, one for me.
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Ham. She well instructs me.
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Queen. Have you forgot me?
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
In noise so rude against me?
How all occasions do inform against me
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
Will you be rul'd by me?
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Ham. One.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
Have by the very cunning of the scene
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
To those of mine!
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
mine.
To be your Valentine.
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
ere you had done.
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
Priest. No more be done.
Laer. Must there no more be done?
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
If there be any good thing to be done,
With sore distraction. What I have done
Ros. Then is the world one.
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
He is dead and gone;
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
The bell then beating one-
Mar. 'Tis gone!
He is gone, he is gone,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
Now I am alone.  
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
To you alone.
For nature crescent does not grow alone
Other. Why, he had none.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
From another one?
You are the most immediate to our throne,
At his heels a stone.
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
Ham. From top to toe?
Laer. O, treble woe
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
To business with the King, more than the scope
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Could not so mope.
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
by William Shakespeare
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
Hor. Half a share.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
King. At supper? Where?
But to my mind, though I am native here  
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
Ber. 'Tis here!
Hor. 'Tis here!
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
That youth and observation copied there,
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Ham. I would I had been there.
It had been so with us, had we been there.
What, is Horatio there ?
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Ber. Who's there.?
What is the issue of the business there.  
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
To England send him; or confine him where
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Doubt thou the stars are fire;
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
As if it some impartment did desire
For every man hath business and desire,
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
It is most retrograde to our desire;
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
Before You visit him, to make inquire
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
Never departed more.
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
No more.
Queen. No more!
One fair daughter, and no more,
eyes. Prithee no more!
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Laer. Think it no more.
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
SCENE.- Elsinore.
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
Near Elsinore.
make you at Elsinore?
Elsinore.
Within the centre.
The terms of our estate may not endure
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
Among a mineral of metals base,
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
phrase.
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
Last, and as such containing as all these,
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
When it prov'd otherwise.?
be otherwise.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
sense.
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
Oph. Still better, and worse.
In obstinate condolement is a course
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
I had my father's signet in my purse,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
For this effect defective comes by cause.
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
That your good beauties be the happy cause
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
And our affairs from England come too late.  
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Let me be no assistant for a state,  
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
The safety and health of this whole state,
Of his true state.
So far from cheer and from your former state.
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
As it doth well appear unto our state,
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
As of a father; for let the world take note
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Th' effect of what I wrote?
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
Enter Prologue.
This above all- to thine own self be true,
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
Pol. 'Tis most true;
Collected from all simples that have virtue
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Rey. My lord, I have.
Queen. What would she have?
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
But he's an arrant knave.
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Leaps in the grave.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
And not have strew'd thy grave.
grave.]
Ham. Into my grave?
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
pound! Didst perceive?
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Ham. Nay, but to live
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
I could not but by her. The other motive
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Fare you well, my dove!
To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
But never doubt I love.
In youth when I did love, did love,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
There lives within the very flame of love
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
And with no less nobility of love
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
This mad young man. But so much was our love
Receiv'd his love?
his love.
Ham. As woman's love.
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
Pol. Mad for thy love?  
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
As day does to your eye.
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
We shall express our duty in his eye;
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
The origin and commencement of his grief
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
By his cockle bat and' staff
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
My head should be struck off.
A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
are shot off.  
not off.
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
And live the purer with the other half,
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
So much from th' understanding of himself,
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
The Devil himself.
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
When down her weedy trophies and herself
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
Given private time to you, and you yourself
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
It sends some precious instance of itself
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Being a thing immortal as itself?  
Whose violent property fordoes itself  
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
purpose, confess thyself-
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Must render up myself.
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
And that I see, in passages of proof,
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
Than fly to others that we know not of?
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
At his head a grass-green turf,
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Mar. Is it not like the King?
There is a play to-night before the King.
Ber. Long live the King!
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
the King.
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
What company, at what expense; and finding
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
The King is a thing-
More relative than this. The play's the thing
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
tell me one thing.
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
Ham. Nothing.
Did nothing.
Ber. I have seen nothing.
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
of a king?
Queen. As kill a king?
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
grave-making?
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
This man shall set me packing.
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
O thou vile king,
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
When thou liest howling.
In censure of his seeming.
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
His silence will sit drooping.
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
The canker galls the infants of the spring
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
And sure I am two men there are not living
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
the puppets dallying.
Therefore I have entreated him along,  
Pol. This is too long.
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
are unwrung.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Appears before them and with solemn march
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Hath clawed me in his clutch,
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
Without the sensible and true avouch
As if I had never been such.
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
It may be death.
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
But that the dread of something after death-
He never gave commandment for their death.
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
To muddy death.
Is by a forged process of my death
And hears it roar beneath.
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
rawer breath
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Hor. In faith,
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
Here's to thy health.
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
For he himself is subject to his birth.
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
O, speak!
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
King. Why, now You speak
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
But what we do determine oft we break.
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Queen. Alack,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
So levied as before, against the Polack;
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
A very, very- pajock.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
Mar. No, it is struck.
So bloodily hast struck.
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
And with a larger tether may he walk
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
As level as the cannon to his blank,
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
Your wisdom best shall think.
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
A very noble youth. Mark.
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
Claudius, King of Denmark.
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
for your succession in Denmark?
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
Oph. Pray you mark.
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
What might you think? No, I went round to work
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
which was the model of that Danish seal;
My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
Where every god did seem to set his seal
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Of bell and burial.
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
And bear it to the chapel.
With variable objects, shall expel
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
into a toil?
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
In further evil?
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
Ber. Last night of all,
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
King. So you shall;
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
they'll tell all.
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
His liberty is full of threats to all-
The better to beguile. This is for all:
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
And so, without more circumstance at all,
Unless things mortal move them not at all)
Or not at all.
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
As if he had been loosed out of hell
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
Pol. Farewell!
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
Farewell.
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
The which he loved passing well.'
love passing well.
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
I will bestow him, and will answer well
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
King. It likes us well;
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
Queen. Did he receive you well?
King. Let him demand his fill.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
We must with all our majesty and skill
have not the skill.
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Ham. It waves me still.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
Ham. I will.
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
To show us so much gentry and good will
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
All. We will, we will!
Rough-hew them how we will-
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
And reason panders will.
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
All flaxen was his poll.
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
Throws up a skull.]
Puts down the skull.]
Throws up [another skull].
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Mar. O, wonderful!
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
And my imaginations are as foul
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
The inward service of the mind and soul
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
O, step between her and her fighting soul
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
God 'a'mercy on his soul!
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
Even with the very comment of thy soul
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
Now falls on Priam.
That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
This sudden sending him away must seem
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
And not where I had aim'd them.
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
I pray you, now receive them.
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
help to hasten them?
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
Of him that brought them.
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
This night to play before him.
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Hor. Heaven secure him!
Hor. I did very well note him.
And will not let belief take hold of him
Hor. A piece of him.
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
Pray you be round with him.
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
Grapples with him].
No more to undertake it, I will work him
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
We cannot get from him.  
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
You must not put another scandal on him,
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Speak loudly for him.
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Play. 'Anon he finds him,
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
King. Well, we shall sift him.
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Queen. Did you assay him  
Queen. But not by him!
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
And to the manner born, it is a custom
Hor. Is it a custom?
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
In filial obligation for some term
Together with that fair and warlike form
And there assume some other, horrible form
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
But, as we often see, against some storm,
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
So much as from occasion you may glean,  
To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
That I might be the organ.
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
To give the world assurance of a man.
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
Ham. As th'art a man,
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
The unseen good old man.
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Exit Gentleman.]
gentleman.'
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
Other. Was he a gentleman?
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Speak, man.
would perhaps trouble a woman.
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
O most pernicious woman!
King. A Norman.
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
And we cast away moan.
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
What we two nights have seen.
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
Ham. How does the Queen?
Enter Queen.
Exit Queen.]
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
How now, sweet queen?
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
King. Will you know them then?
Ham. What woman then?
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
O heavy burthen!
Be you and I behind an arras then.
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
Queen. Ay, amen!
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
All. Gentlemen!
Exeunt Gentlemen.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Come hither, gentlemen,
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
The form of plausive manners, that these men
So oft it chances in particular men
the only men.
Unto our climature and countrymen.
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
On plots and errors happen.
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
To heaven.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
As oft as any passion under heaven
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
I shall not look upon his like again.
He never will come again.
And will he not come again?
And will he not come again?
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Perchance 'twill walk again.
again.
Laer. Well, again!
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Enter Ghost again.
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
That he which hath your noble father slain
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Without more motive, into every brain
Exeunt [all but the Captain].
A Norwegian Captain.
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
Hor. That is most certain.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
And never come mischance between us twain!
Ham. Up from my cabin,
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
Hor. Let them come in.
Queen. Let her come in.  
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
All. No, let's come in!
To his confine; and of the truth herein
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
Is very cunning in.
A noise within.
Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
March within.]
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
your bounty. Take them in.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
And after we will both our judgments join
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
King. Our son shall win.
How now O What hath befall'n?
Such was the very armour he had on
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
Give us the foils. Come on.
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And prologue to the omen coming on,
In honourable fashion.
A scullion!  
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Into a tow'ring passion.
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
against their own succession.
When we would bring him on to some confession
hold up Adam's profession.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
This present object made probation.
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
And gem of all the nation.
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
I have in quick determination
To show my duty in your coronation,  
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
The very place puts toys of desperation,
amazement and admiration.
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
And they in France of the best rank and station
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
seeks her own salvation?
innovation.
Mar. Look with what courteous action
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
And could of men distinguish, her election
discretion.
According to the phrase or the addition
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
So horridly to shake our disposition
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
That might your nature, honour, and exception
Shall in the general censure take corruption
went to cuffs in the question.
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
By this encompassment and drift of question
That I must call't in question.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
And thus the native hue of resolution
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
For what we know must be, and is as common
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
To put an antic disposition on),  
And his sandal shoon.
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
My custom always of the afternoon,
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
Ham. What's his weapon?
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
That capability and godlike reason
O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
All. Treason! treason!
fay, I cannot reason.
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Where is your son?
Than that which dearest father bears his son
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
You laying these slight sullies on my son
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
For. Go softly on.
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
But, orderly to end where I begun,  
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
Hor. Well, sit we down,
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
And break your own neck down.
As therein are set down.
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
Exit Second Clown.]  
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
As are companions noted and most known
Now wears his crown.
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
As if increase of appetite had grown
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
That our devices still are overthrown;
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
Laer. No.
No.
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Queen. What shall I do?
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
Exit Reynaldo.
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
And let them know both what we mean to do
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
Fran. Bernardo?
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
Gonzago'?
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
As infinite as man may undergo-  
But let that go.
Which bewept to the grave did not go
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Why to a public count I might not go
O, ho!
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Help, help, ho!
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Ham. Between who?
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
Ham. Saw? who?
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
Retires with Horatio.]  
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Enter Horatio.
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
Exit Horatio.]  
Exit Horatio.
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
Ham. How if I answer no?
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
me, whether you were sent for or no.  
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
King. It shall be so.
Laer. Let this be so.
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
Hor. E'en so.
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
The rather, if you could devise it so
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Oph. No more but so?
And let him know so.
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
Ber. It would be spoke to.
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
Other. Go to!
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
The tedious day with sleep.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Oph. What means your lordship?
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
For out o' doors he went without their help
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
Give him the cup.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
All given to mine ear.
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
How these things came about. So shall You hear
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Swear.
Ghost. Swear.
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
Consent to swear.
They swear.]
you nine year.
Drabbing. You may go so far.
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
the guts of a beggar.
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Doubt truth to be a liar;
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Marcellus, Officer.
Bernardo, officer.
Marcellus, officer.
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
King. Pluck thein asunder.
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
And, as I think, they have already order
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
You know the wager?
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Enter a Messenger.
Exit Messenger.
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
Both. Longer, longer.
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Queen. I will not speak with her.
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
But you must know, your father lost a father;
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
King. Conceit upon her father.
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
father?
To give these mourning duties to your father;
Requite him for your father.  
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
My father- methinks I see my father.
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Give me my father!
Play something like the murther of my father
Ham. The King my father?
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
Most throughly for my father.
Laer. Where is my father?
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
Nay, come, let's go together.  
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
Clown. For none neither.
dare scarce come thither.
hither?
Why does the drum come hither?
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
Of my true mother.
Farewell, dear mother.
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
Good night, mother.
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Ham. Why he more than another?
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
And hurt my brother.
Ham. Murther?
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
May give his saying deed; which is no further
King. How may we try it further?
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
They bore him barefac'd on the bier
Francisco, a soldier
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Or for some frontier?
Enter young Osric, a courtier.
Osric, courtier.
Voltemand, courtier.
A Gentleman, courtier.
Guildenstern, courtier.
Cornelius, courtier.
Rosencrantz, courtier.
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
plunge him into far more choler.
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
And pious action we do sugar o'er  
Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
Gives a paper.]
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
Ham. At supper.
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Winner and loser?
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
master's daughter.
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
carpenter?
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
skull, the King's jester.
That I must be their scourge and minister.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
To hear and see the matter.
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
What is the matter?
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
Reads] the letter.
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
Truly deliver.
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
Giving to you no further personal power
In general synod take away her power;
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Exit First Player.]
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Osr. Sir?
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
not so wildly from my affair.
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Ham. Are you fair?
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Clown. Mine, sir.
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
Guil. The King, sir-
Ham. With drink, sir?
much approve me. Well, sir?  
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
Ham. Of him, sir.
Clown. For no man, sir.
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
Ham. Come on, sir.
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
God bless you, sir!
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
And all we mourn for.  
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
That thus he suffers for.
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
And dupp'd the chamber door,
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
liquor.
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
Of his behaviour.
That show of such an exercise may colour
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
Till by some elder masters of known honour
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
All. Our duty to your honour.  
Player. I warrant your honour.
Pol. Upon my honour-
And in the porches of my ears did pour
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
King. Alas, alas!
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Polonius hides behind the arras.]
This realm dismantled was  
It came to pass, as most like it was.'
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  
Reads.]
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Ham. Hold off your hands!
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
Importing the surrender of those lands
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
As low as to the fiends!
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
Welcome, my good friends.
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
And passion in the gods.'
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
More than in words?
Ham. Words, words, words.
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
Ham. What call you the carriages?
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
carrying torches.
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
Out of his lunacies.
Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
Laer. None but his enemies.
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Some little time; so by your companies
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
Ros. Both your Majesties
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
where my abridgment comes.
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
But I will delve one yard below their mines
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
Oph. The King rises.
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
As harbingers preceding still the fates
I should have fatted all the region kites
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
Of mighty opposites.
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
Enter King and Laertes.
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
King. Good Laertes,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
Osr. Of Laertes?
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
King. If it be so, Laertes
Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
Ham. That is Laertes,
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
To the ambassadors of England gives
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
After the thing it loves.
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Of mine own eyes.  
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Oph. (Sings)
Clown. (Sings)
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
Richer than that which four successive kings
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
Clown digs and] sings.
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Clown. (sings)
And more above, hath his solicitings,
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
Ham. This?
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
King. Let's further think of this,
Now, out of this-
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
So excellent a king, that was to this
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Ham. But where was this?
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
What warlike noise is this?
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
King. Do you think 'tis this?
To tell us this.
Laer. Why ask you this?
it means, say you this:
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
King. What dost thou mean by this?  
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
Most holy and religious fear it is
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
What majesty should be, what duty is,
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
As from the body of contraction plucks  
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Where should We have our thanks?
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
All may be well.                                  He kneels.
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
Laertes falls.]
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
And in this brainish apprehension kills
Ham. These tedious old fools!
As to peace-parted souls.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Spreads his arms.
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
Hor. No, by no means!
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Fort. Let four captains
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Is the main motive of our preparations,
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
Ghost beckons.]  
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
King. O, for two special reasons,
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
The insolence of office, and the spurns
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
He] sleeps.
But age with his stealing steps
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
And let us once again assail your ears,
Pours the poison in his ears.
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
The light and careless livery that it wears
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
thirty years.
That was and is the question of these wars.
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
Enter the Players with recorders.  
Two Clowns, gravediggers.
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
Enter Laertes with others.
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
But keep a farm and carters.
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Enter a Messenger with letters.
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
With true-love showers.
Scatters flowers.]
Larded all with sweet flowers;
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
He answers:
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
Flourish for the Players.
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
Players.
Enter four or five Players.
Exeunt Players.
Guil. There are the players.
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Pol. Come, sirs.
English Ambassadors.
Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
Enter Sailors.
within 's two hours.
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
To both your honours.
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
favours?
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
You go not till I set you up a glass
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
Without debatement further, more or less,
Queen. This is mere madness;
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
And I the matter will reword; which madness
That I essentially am not in madness,
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Answer, and think upon this business.
shall be the end of my business.
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
It lifted up it head and did address
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
As one incapable of her own distress,
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
But I do prophesy th' election lights  
All. Lights, lights, lights!
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
shame and the odd hits.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
As he is very potent with such spirits,
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Colours, and Attendants.
Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
Attendants].
Exeunt Attendants.]
tenants.
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
Between the pass and fell incensed points
And there I see such black and grained spots
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
clouts.
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
King. Bring him before us.
Both. We will haste us.
Leave us.
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
But you shall hear. Thus:
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
What is the reason that you use me thus?
It could not move thus.  
further trade with us?
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
King. How long hath she been thus?
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
Enter King and Polonius.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Enter Queen and Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Laertes, son to Polonius.
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.  
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
King. Where is Polonius?
Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
Exit [Polonius].
Exit Polonius.]
Exit [Polonius].  
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
Marcellus?
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
Enter Lucianus.
For your desire to know what is between us,
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Of blue Olympus.
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
strumpet. What news ?
How now? What news?
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
This presence knows,
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
The cock crows.
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
I ha't!
Ham. What?
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Clown. E'en that.
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
A villain kills my father; and for that,
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Oph. Do you doubt that?
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
I would know that.
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
Ros. Believe what?
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Is thought-sick at the act.
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Ham. Such an act
Ham. What did you enact?
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
The leperous distilment; whose effect
That we find out the cause of this effect-
By letters congruing to that effect,
Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
Must give us pause. There's the respect
As will not leave their tinct.
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
To lay our service freely at your feet,
Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
For and a shrouding sheet;
O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
For such a guest is meet.
For such a guest is meet.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
Methought it was very sweet;
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
And put it in his pocket!  
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Speak to her, Hamlet.
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Ghost beckons Hamlet.
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
No more, sweet Hamlet!
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
King. Ay, Hamlet.
But you'll be secret?
The Queen's closet.
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
Ber. Well, good night.
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
Fran. Give you good night.
In the dead vast and middle of the night
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Tis now the very witching time of night,
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
Hold you the watch to-night?
Ham. I will watch to-night.
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
King. It falls right.
That ever I was born to set it right!
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
And vanish'd from our sight.
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Fort. Where is this sight?
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
I never gave you aught.
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
Ham. So be it!
very liberal conceit.
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
Hor. Never believe it.
Ham. Do not believe it.
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
To let you know of it.
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
repair hither and say you are not fit.
We would not understand what was most fit,
And will not wrong it.
Than your particular demands will touch it.
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
But do not go with it!
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
A table and flagons of wine on it.  
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
But truly I do fear it.
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Ham. Whose was it?
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
And I beseech you instantly to visit
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.
Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
Give you good night.                                   Exit.
But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.
We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]
King. We will try it.
King. I do not think't.
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
Of general assault.  
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Lords Attendant.
Exit Attendant.]
Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
And call it accident.
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
How in my words somever she be shent,
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
Ham. Judgment!
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Is not to stir without great argument,
This grave shall have a living monument.
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
spent.
Haply the seas, and countries different,
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
Against the which a moiety competent
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
To give it due content.
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
That has no relish of salvation in't-
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
on't.
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
What think you on't?
I have sworn't.
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Clown. To't.
Laer. I will do't!
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
That thou so many princes at a shot
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
Laer. O, fear me not!
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
Both. My lord, we will not.
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
Looking before and after, gave us not
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
it not?
not.
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
might it not?
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
insert in't, could you not?
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
Ros. No indeed are they not.  
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
Young men will do't if they come to't
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
As by lot, God wot,'
Ghost. I find thee apt;
A face without a heart,'
The head is not more native to the heart,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
This something-settled matter in his heart,
And I am sick at heart.
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
It warms the very sickness in my heart
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
Queen. More matter, with less art.
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Lest with this piteous action you convert
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
To make it truster of your own report
And gave you such a masterly report
And with a look so piteous in purport
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
That she should lock herself from his resort,
As it is common for the younger sort
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
By laboursome petition, and at last
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
Laer. A Norman was't?
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
A Priest.
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Queen. O, confound the rest!
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
Give me one poor request.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
None wed the second but who killed the first.
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
When second husband let me be accurst!
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
Ham. My fate cries out
By indirections find directions out.
philosophy could find it out.
Treachery! Seek it out.
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
Hor. Not when I saw't.
it. Adieu.
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
I'll rant as well as thou.
For husband shalt thou-
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Thus didest thou.'
So, proceed you.
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
Who hath reliev'd you?
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
my leave of you.
King. He made confession of you;
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
Hor. I beseech you.
Ham. I do beseech you.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
And he to England shall along with you.
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
Mark you,
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
But let me hear from you.
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Both. We'll wait upon you.  
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
What I have said to you.
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
With all my love I do commend me to you;
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
hath sent me to you.
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
This marvel to you.
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
have sent for you.
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
I'll visit you.
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
Ham. I pray you.
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
King. Who shall stay you?
Queen. I shall obey you;
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
Other. But is this law?
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
Will not debate the question of this straw.
know a hawk from a handsaw.
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
High on a stage be placed to the view;
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
it is but a shadow's shadow.
And I a maid at your window,
But I have that within which passeth show-
Not of that dye which their investments show,
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
Therefore let's follow.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
King. Not that I know.
And tell you what I know.
How should I your true-love know
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
and then, you know,
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
Ham. What's the matter now?
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
Ham. What hour now?
I be so able as now.
Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
His beard was as white as snow,
Ham. If she should break it now!
See you now-
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
Laer. Have at you now!
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Ber. Say-
How does your honour for this many a day?
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
And do such bitter business as the day
And it must follow, as the night the day,
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
The hart ungalled play;
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
King. What do you call the play?
Pol. Give o'er the play.
But if you hold it fit, after the play
Prepare to play.
Laertes before you fall to play.  
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
For they are actions that a man might play;
Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
Look you, I'll go pray.
O, say!
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
i' th' university, you say?
say-
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
King. Give me some light! Away!
Thus runs the world away.
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
King. O Gertrude, come away!
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
Osr. Nothing neither way.
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
Here in the lobby.
the stair, into the lobby.
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
Here stooping to your clemency,
That he is open to incontinency.
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Thou know'st already.
the players ready.
make you ready.
One word more, good lady.
Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
King. How do you, pretty lady?
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
For if the King like not the comedy,
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
All my smooth body.
And makes each petty artire in this body
With which she followed my poor father's body
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
Guil. But we both obey,
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
they?
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
This warlike volley.
Ham. Why,
Ham. Why?
Ham. Why,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
humanity so abominably.
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
Ham. How strangely?
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
waterfly?
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Yes, faith, heartily.
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
And for your rapier most especially,
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
Most free in his reply.
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
You do not understand yourself so clearly
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Hor. Most constantly.
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
Directly seasons him his enemy.
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
And hath abatements and delays as many  
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
The violence of either grief or joy
Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
As England was his faithful tributary,
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
And these few precepts in thy memory
Yea, from the table of my memory
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
That are so fortified against our story,
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Of man and country-
A station like the herald Mercury
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
With this regard their currents turn awry
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Ham. Ecstasy?
This bodiless creation ecstasy
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
Than to entreaty.
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
tragedians of the city.
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
In neither aught, or in extremity.
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Passing through nature to eternity.  
To his unmast'red importunity.
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
If you desire to know the certainty
To youth and liberty.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
Thy natural magic and dire property
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
a thing to you from his Majesty.
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
musty.
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Over the nasty sty!
discourse to your beauty.
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
And we did think it writ down in our duty
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
Enter Rosencrantz.


               ORIGINAL TEXT:             

THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK


by William Shakespeare



Dramatis Personae

  Claudius, King of Denmark.
  Marcellus, Officer.
  Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
  Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
  Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
  Laertes, son to Polonius.
  Voltemand, courtier.
  Cornelius, courtier.
  Rosencrantz, courtier.
  Guildenstern, courtier.
  Osric, courtier.
  A Gentleman, courtier.
  A Priest.
  Marcellus, officer.
  Bernardo, officer.
  Francisco, a soldier
  Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
  Players.
  Two Clowns, gravediggers.
  Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.  
  A Norwegian Captain.
  English Ambassadors.

  Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
  Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.

  Ghost of Hamlet's Father.

  Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.





SCENE.- Elsinore.


ACT I. Scene I.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.

Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].

  Ber. Who's there.?
  Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
  Ber. Long live the King!
  Fran. Bernardo?
  Ber. He.
  Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
  Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
  Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
    And I am sick at heart.
  Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
  Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
  Ber. Well, good night.
    If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
    The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.

                    Enter Horatio and Marcellus.  

  Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
  Hor. Friends to this ground.
  Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
  Fran. Give you good night.
  Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
    Who hath reliev'd you?
  Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
    Give you good night.                                   Exit.
  Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
  Ber. Say-
    What, is Horatio there ?
  Hor. A piece of him.
  Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
  Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
  Ber. I have seen nothing.
  Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
    And will not let belief take hold of him
    Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
    Therefore I have entreated him along,  
    With us to watch the minutes of this night,
    That, if again this apparition come,
    He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
  Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
  Ber. Sit down awhile,
    And let us once again assail your ears,
    That are so fortified against our story,
    What we two nights have seen.
  Hor. Well, sit we down,
    And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
  Ber. Last night of all,
    When yond same star that's westward from the pole
    Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
    Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
    The bell then beating one-

                        Enter Ghost.

  Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
  Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.  
  Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
  Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
  Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
  Ber. It would be spoke to.
  Mar. Question it, Horatio.
  Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
    Together with that fair and warlike form
    In which the majesty of buried Denmark
    Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
  Mar. It is offended.
  Ber. See, it stalks away!
  Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
                                                     Exit Ghost.
  Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
  Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
    Is not this something more than fantasy?
    What think you on't?
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
    Without the sensible and true avouch
    Of mine own eyes.  
  Mar. Is it not like the King?
  Hor. As thou art to thyself.
    Such was the very armour he had on
    When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
    So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
    He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
    'Tis strange.
  Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
    With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
  Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
    But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
    This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
  Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
    Why this same strict and most observant watch
    So nightly toils the subject of the land,
    And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
    And foreign mart for implements of war;
    Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
    Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
    What might be toward, that this sweaty haste  
    Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
    Who is't that can inform me?
  Hor. That can I.
    At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
    Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
    Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
    Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
    Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
    (For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
    Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
    Well ratified by law and heraldry,
    Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
    Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
    Against the which a moiety competent
    Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
    To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
    Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
    And carriage of the article design'd,
    His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
    Of unimproved mettle hot and full,  
    Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
    Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
    For food and diet, to some enterprise
    That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
    As it doth well appear unto our state,
    But to recover of us, by strong hand
    And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
    So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
    Is the main motive of our preparations,
    The source of this our watch, and the chief head
    Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
  Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
    Well may it sort that this portentous figure
    Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
    That was and is the question of these wars.
  Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
    In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
    A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
    The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
    Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;  
    As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
    Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
    Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
    Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
    And even the like precurse of fierce events,
    As harbingers preceding still the fates
    And prologue to the omen coming on,
    Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
    Unto our climature and countrymen.

                      Enter Ghost again.

    But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
    I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
                                               Spreads his arms.
    If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
    Speak to me.
    If there be any good thing to be done,
    That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
    Speak to me.  
    If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
    Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
    O, speak!
    Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
    Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
    (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
                                                 The cock crows.
    Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
  Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
  Ber. 'Tis here!
  Hor. 'Tis here!
  Mar. 'Tis gone!
                                                     Exit Ghost.
    We do it wrong, being so majestical,
    To offer it the show of violence;
    For it is as the air, invulnerable,
    And our vain blows malicious mockery.
  Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
  Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing  
    Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
    The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
    Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
    Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
    Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
    Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
    To his confine; and of the truth herein
    This present object made probation.
  Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
    Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
    Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
    The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
    And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
    The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
    No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
    So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
  Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
    But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
    Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
    Break we our watch up; and by my advice  
    Let us impart what we have seen to-night
    Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
    This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
    Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
    As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
    Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
    Where we shall find him most conveniently.           Exeunt.




Scene II.
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.

Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
Lords Attendant.

  King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
    The memory be green, and that it us befitted
    To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
    To be contracted in one brow of woe,
    Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
    That we with wisest sorrow think on him
    Together with remembrance of ourselves.
    Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
    Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
    Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
    With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
    With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
    In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
    Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
    Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone  
    With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
    Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
    Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
    Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
    Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
    Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
    He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
    Importing the surrender of those lands
    Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
    To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
    Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
    Thus much the business is: we have here writ
    To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
    Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
    Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
    His further gait herein, in that the levies,
    The lists, and full proportions are all made
    Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
    You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
    For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,  
    Giving to you no further personal power
    To business with the King, more than the scope
    Of these dilated articles allow.            [Gives a paper.]
    Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
  Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
  King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
                                 Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
    And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
    You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
    You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
    And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
    That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
    The head is not more native to the heart,
    The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
    Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
    What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
  Laer. My dread lord,
    Your leave and favour to return to France;
    From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
    To show my duty in your coronation,  
    Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
    My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
    And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
  King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
  Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
    By laboursome petition, and at last
    Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
    I do beseech you give him leave to go.
  King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
    And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
    But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
  Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
  King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
  Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
  Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
    And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
    Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
    Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
    Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
    Passing through nature to eternity.  
  Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
  Queen. If it be,
    Why seems it so particular with thee?
  Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
    'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
    Nor customary suits of solemn black,
    Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
    No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
    Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
    Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
    'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
    For they are actions that a man might play;
    But I have that within which passeth show-
    These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
  King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
    To give these mourning duties to your father;
    But you must know, your father lost a father;
    That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
    In filial obligation for some term
    To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever  
    In obstinate condolement is a course
    Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
    It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
    A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
    An understanding simple and unschool'd;
    For what we know must be, and is as common
    As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
    Why should we in our peevish opposition
    Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
    A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
    To reason most absurd, whose common theme
    Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
    From the first corse till he that died to-day,
    'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
    This unprevailing woe, and think of us
    As of a father; for let the world take note
    You are the most immediate to our throne,
    And with no less nobility of love
    Than that which dearest father bears his son
    Do I impart toward you. For your intent  
    In going back to school in Wittenberg,
    It is most retrograde to our desire;
    And we beseech you, bend you to remain
    Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
    Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
  Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
    I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
  Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
  King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
    Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
    This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
    Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
    No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
    But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
    And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
    Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
                                Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
  Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
    Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
    Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd  
    His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
    How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
    Seem to me all the uses of this world!
    Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
    That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
    Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
    But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
    So excellent a king, that was to this
    Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
    That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
    Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
    Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
    As if increase of appetite had grown
    By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
    Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
    A little month, or ere those shoes were old
    With which she followed my poor father's body
    Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
    (O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
    Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;  
    My father's brother, but no more like my father
    Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
    Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
    Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
    She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
    With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
    It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
    But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!

          Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.

  Hor. Hail to your lordship!
  Ham. I am glad to see you well.
    Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
  Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
  Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
    And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
    Marcellus?
  Mar. My good lord!
  Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-  
    But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
  Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
    Nor shall you do my ear that violence
    To make it truster of your own report
    Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
    But what is your affair in Elsinore?
    We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
  Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
  Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
    I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
  Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
  Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
    Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
    Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
    Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
    My father- methinks I see my father.
  Hor. O, where, my lord?
  Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
  Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.  
  Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
    I shall not look upon his like again.
  Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
  Ham. Saw? who?
  Hor. My lord, the King your father.
  Ham. The King my father?
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
    With an attent ear, till I may deliver
    Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
    This marvel to you.
  Ham. For God's love let me hear!
  Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
    (Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
    In the dead vast and middle of the night
    Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
    Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
    Appears before them and with solemn march
    Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
    By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
    Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd  
    Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
    Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
    In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
    And I with them the third night kept the watch;
    Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
    Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
    The apparition comes. I knew your father.
    These hands are not more like.
  Ham. But where was this?
  Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
  Ham. Did you not speak to it?
  Hor. My lord, I did;
    But answer made it none. Yet once methought
    It lifted up it head and did address
    Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
    But even then the morning cock crew loud,
    And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
    And vanish'd from our sight.
  Ham. 'Tis very strange.
  Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;  
    And we did think it writ down in our duty
    To let you know of it.
  Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
    Hold you the watch to-night?
  Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
  Ham. Arm'd, say you?
  Both. Arm'd, my lord.
  Ham. From top to toe?
  Both. My lord, from head to foot.
  Ham. Then saw you not his face?
  Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
  Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
  Ham. Pale or red?
  Hor. Nay, very pale.
  Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
  Hor. Most constantly.
  Ham. I would I had been there.
  Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
  Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?  
  Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
  Both. Longer, longer.
  Hor. Not when I saw't.
  Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
  Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
    A sable silver'd.
  Ham. I will watch to-night.
    Perchance 'twill walk again.
  Hor. I warr'nt it will.
  Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
    I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
    And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
    If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
    Let it be tenable in your silence still;
    And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
    Give it an understanding but no tongue.
    I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
    Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
    I'll visit you.
  All. Our duty to your honour.  
  Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
                                        Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
    My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
    I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
    Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
    Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Exit.




Scene III.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.

Enter Laertes and Ophelia.

  Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
    And, sister, as the winds give benefit
    And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
    But let me hear from you.
  Oph. Do you doubt that?
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
    Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
    A violet in the youth of primy nature,
    Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
    The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
    No more.
  Oph. No more but so?
  Laer. Think it no more.
    For nature crescent does not grow alone
    In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
    The inward service of the mind and soul
    Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,  
    And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
    The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
    His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
    For he himself is subject to his birth.
    He may not, as unvalued persons do,
    Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
    The safety and health of this whole state,
    And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
    Unto the voice and yielding of that body
    Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
    It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
    As he in his particular act and place
    May give his saying deed; which is no further
    Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
    Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
    If with too credent ear you list his songs,
    Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
    To his unmast'red importunity.
    Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
    And keep you in the rear of your affection,  
    Out of the shot and danger of desire.
    The chariest maid is prodigal enough
    If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
    Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
    The canker galls the infants of the spring
    Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
    And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
    Contagious blastments are most imminent.
    Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
    Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
  Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
    As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
    Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
    Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
    Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
    Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
    And recks not his own rede.
  Laer. O, fear me not!

                       Enter Polonius.  

    I stay too long. But here my father comes.
    A double blessing is a double grace;
    Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
  Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
    The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
    And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
    And these few precepts in thy memory
    Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
    Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
    Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
    Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
    Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
    But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
    Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
    Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
    Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
    Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
    Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
    Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,  
    But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
    For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
    And they in France of the best rank and station
    Are most select and generous, chief in that.
    Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
    For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
    And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
    This above all- to thine own self be true,
    And it must follow, as the night the day,
    Thou canst not then be false to any man.
    Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
  Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
  Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
  Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
    What I have said to you.
  Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
    And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
  Laer. Farewell.                                          Exit.
  Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
  Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.  
  Pol. Marry, well bethought!
    'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
    Given private time to you, and you yourself
    Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
    If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
    And that in way of caution- I must tell you
    You do not understand yourself so clearly
    As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
    What is between you? Give me up the truth.
  Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
    Of his affection to me.
  Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
    Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
    Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
  Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
  Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
    That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
    Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
    Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
    Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.  
  Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
    In honourable fashion.
  Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
  Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
    With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
  Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
    When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
    Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
    Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
    Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
    You must not take for fire. From this time
    Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
    Set your entreatments at a higher rate
    Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
    Believe so much in him, that he is young,
    And with a larger tether may he walk
    Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
    Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
    Not of that dye which their investments show,
    But mere implorators of unholy suits,  
    Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
    The better to beguile. This is for all:
    I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
    Have you so slander any moment leisure
    As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
    Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
  Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene IV.
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.

Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.

  Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
  Ham. What hour now?
  Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
  Mar. No, it is struck.
  Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
    Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
                   A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
    What does this mean, my lord?
  Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
    Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
    And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
    The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
    The triumph of his pledge.
  Hor. Is it a custom?
  Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
    But to my mind, though I am native here  
    And to the manner born, it is a custom
    More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
    This heavy-headed revel east and west
    Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
    They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
    Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
    From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
    The pith and marrow of our attribute.
    So oft it chances in particular men
    That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
    As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
    Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
    By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
    Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
    Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
    The form of plausive manners, that these men
    Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
    Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
    Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
    As infinite as man may undergo-  
    Shall in the general censure take corruption
    From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
    Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.

                         Enter Ghost.

  Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
  Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
    Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
    Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
    Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
    Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
    That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
    King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
    Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
    Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
    Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
    Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
    Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
    To cast thee up again. What may this mean  
    That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
    Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
    Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
    So horridly to shake our disposition
    With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
    Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
                                           Ghost beckons Hamlet.
  Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
    As if it some impartment did desire
    To you alone.
  Mar. Look with what courteous action
    It waves you to a more removed ground.
    But do not go with it!
  Hor. No, by no means!
  Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
  Hor. Do not, my lord!
  Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
    I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
    And for my soul, what can it do to that,
    Being a thing immortal as itself?  
    It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
  Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
    Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
    That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
    And there assume some other, horrible form
    Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
    And draw you into madness? Think of it.
    The very place puts toys of desperation,
    Without more motive, into every brain
    That looks so many fadoms to the sea
    And hears it roar beneath.
  Ham. It waves me still.
    Go on. I'll follow thee.
  Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
  Ham. Hold off your hands!
  Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
  Ham. My fate cries out
    And makes each petty artire in this body
    As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
                                                [Ghost beckons.]  
    Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
    By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
    I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
                                        Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
  Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
  Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
  Hor. Heaven will direct it.
  Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene V.
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.

Enter Ghost and Hamlet.

  Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
  Ghost. Mark me.
  Ham. I will.
  Ghost. My hour is almost come,
    When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
    Must render up myself.
  Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
  Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
    To what I shall unfold.
  Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
  Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
  Ham. What?
  Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
    Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
    And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
    Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
    Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid  
    To tell the secrets of my prison house,
    I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
    Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
    Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
    Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
    And each particular hair to stand an end
    Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
    But this eternal blazon must not be
    To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
    If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
  Ham. O God!
  Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
  Ham. Murther?
  Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
    But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
  Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
    As meditation or the thoughts of love,
    May sweep to my revenge.
  Ghost. I find thee apt;
    And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed  
    That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
    Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
    'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
    A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
    Is by a forged process of my death
    Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
    The serpent that did sting thy father's life
    Now wears his crown.
  Ham. O my prophetic soul!
    My uncle?
  Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
    With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
    O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
    So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
    The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
    O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
    From me, whose love was of that dignity
    That it went hand in hand even with the vow
    I made to her in marriage, and to decline
    Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor  
    To those of mine!
    But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
    Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
    So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
    Will sate itself in a celestial bed
    And prey on garbage.
    But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
    Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
    My custom always of the afternoon,
    Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
    With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
    And in the porches of my ears did pour
    The leperous distilment; whose effect
    Holds such an enmity with blood of man
    That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
    The natural gates and alleys of the body,
    And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
    And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
    The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
    And a most instant tetter bark'd about,  
    Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
    All my smooth body.
    Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
    Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
    Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
    Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
    No reckoning made, but sent to my account
    With all my imperfections on my head.
  Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
  Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
    Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
    A couch for luxury and damned incest.
    But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
    Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
    Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
    And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
    To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
    The glowworm shows the matin to be near
    And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
    Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.                      Exit.  
  Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
    And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
    And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
    But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
    Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
    In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
    Yea, from the table of my memory
    I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
    All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
    That youth and observation copied there,
    And thy commandment all alone shall live
    Within the book and volume of my brain,
    Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
    O most pernicious woman!
    O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
    My tables! Meet it is I set it down
    That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
    At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.        [Writes.]
    So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
    It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'  
    I have sworn't.
  Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!

                   Enter Horatio and Marcellus.

  Mar. Lord Hamlet!
  Hor. Heaven secure him!
  Ham. So be it!
  Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
  Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
  Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
  Hor. What news, my lord?
  Mar. O, wonderful!
  Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
  Ham. No, you will reveal it.
  Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
  Mar. Nor I, my lord.
  Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
    But you'll be secret?
  Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.  
  Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
    But he's an arrant knave.
  Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
    To tell us this.
  Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
    And so, without more circumstance at all,
    I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
    You, as your business and desires shall point you,
    For every man hath business and desire,
    Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
    Look you, I'll go pray.
  Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
  Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
    Yes, faith, heartily.
  Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
  Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
    And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
    It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
    For your desire to know what is between us,
    O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,  
    As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
    Give me one poor request.
  Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
  Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
  Both. My lord, we will not.
  Ham. Nay, but swear't.
  Hor. In faith,
    My lord, not I.
  Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
  Ham. Upon my sword.
  Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
  Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.

                 Ghost cries under the stage.

  Ghost. Swear.
  Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
    Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
    Consent to swear.
  Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.  
  Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
    Swear by my sword.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
  Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
    Come hither, gentlemen,
    And lay your hands again upon my sword.
    Never to speak of this that you have heard:
    Swear by my sword.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
  Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
    A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
  Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
  Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
    There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
    Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
    But come!
    Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
    How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
    (As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
    To put an antic disposition on),  
    That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
    With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
    Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
    As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
    Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
    Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
    That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
    So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
    Swear.
  Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
                                                   [They swear.]
  Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
    With all my love I do commend me to you;
    And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
    May do t' express his love and friending to you,
    God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
    And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
    The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
    That ever I was born to set it right!
    Nay, come, let's go together.  
                                                         Exeunt.




Act II. Scene I.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.

Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.

  Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
  Rey. I will, my lord.
  Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
    Before You visit him, to make inquire
    Of his behaviour.
  Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
  Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
    Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
    And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
    What company, at what expense; and finding
    By this encompassment and drift of question
    That they do know my son, come you more nearer
    Than your particular demands will touch it.
    Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
    As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
    And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
  Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.  
  Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
    But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
    Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
    What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
    As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
    But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
    As are companions noted and most known
    To youth and liberty.
  Rey. As gaming, my lord.
  Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
    Drabbing. You may go so far.
  Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
  Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
    You must not put another scandal on him,
    That he is open to incontinency.
    That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
    That they may seem the taints of liberty,
    The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
    A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
    Of general assault.  
  Rey. But, my good lord-
  Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
  Rey. Ay, my lord,
    I would know that.
  Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
    And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
    You laying these slight sullies on my son
    As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
    Mark you,
    Your party in converse, him you would sound,
    Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
    The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
    He closes with you in this consequence:
    'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
    According to the phrase or the addition
    Of man and country-
  Rey. Very good, my lord.
  Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
    By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
  Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and  
    gentleman.'
  Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
    He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
    I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
    Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
    There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
    There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
    'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
    Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
    See you now-
    Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
    And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
    With windlasses and with assays of bias,
    By indirections find directions out.
    So, by my former lecture and advice,
    Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
  Rey. My lord, I have.
  Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
  Rey. Good my lord!                                    [Going.]
  Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.  
  Rey. I shall, my lord.
  Pol. And let him ply his music.
  Rey. Well, my lord.
  Pol. Farewell!
                                                  Exit Reynaldo.

                       Enter Ophelia.

    How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
  Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
  Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
  Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
    Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
    No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
    Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
    Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
    And with a look so piteous in purport
    As if he had been loosed out of hell
    To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
  Pol. Mad for thy love?  
  Oph. My lord, I do not know,
    But truly I do fear it.
  Pol. What said he?
  Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
    Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
    And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
    He falls to such perusal of my face
    As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
    At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
    And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
    He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
    As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
    And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
    And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
    He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
    For out o' doors he went without their help
    And to the last bended their light on me.
  Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
    This is the very ecstasy of love,
    Whose violent property fordoes itself  
    And leads the will to desperate undertakings
    As oft as any passion under heaven
    That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
    What, have you given him any hard words of late?
  Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
    I did repel his letters and denied
    His access to me.
  Pol. That hath made him mad.
    I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
    I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
    And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
    By heaven, it is as proper to our age
    To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
    As it is common for the younger sort
    To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
    This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
    More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
    Come.
                                                         Exeunt.

Scene II.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.

  King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
    Moreover that we much did long to see you,
    The need we have to use you did provoke
    Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
    Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
    Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
    Resembles that it was. What it should be,
    More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
    So much from th' understanding of himself,
    I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
    That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
    And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
    That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
    Some little time; so by your companies
    To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
    So much as from occasion you may glean,  
    Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
    That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
  Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
    And sure I am two men there are not living
    To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
    To show us so much gentry and good will
    As to expend your time with us awhile
    For the supply and profit of our hope,
    Your visitation shall receive such thanks
    As fits a king's remembrance.
  Ros. Both your Majesties
    Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
    Put your dread pleasures more into command
    Than to entreaty.
  Guil. But we both obey,
    And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
    To lay our service freely at your feet,
    To be commanded.
  King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
  Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.  
    And I beseech you instantly to visit
    My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
    And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
  Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
    Pleasant and helpful to him!
  Queen. Ay, amen!
                 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
                                                    Attendants].

                         Enter Polonius.

  Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
    Are joyfully return'd.
  King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
  Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
    I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
    Both to my God and to my gracious king;
    And I do think- or else this brain of mine
    Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
    As it hath us'd to do- that I have found  
    The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
  King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
  Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
    My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
  King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
                                                [Exit Polonius.]
    He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
    The head and source of all your son's distemper.
  Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
    His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
  King. Well, we shall sift him.

              Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.

    Welcome, my good friends.
    Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
  Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
    Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
    His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
    To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,  
    But better look'd into, he truly found
    It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
    That so his sickness, age, and impotence
    Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
    On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
    Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
    Makes vow before his uncle never more
    To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
    Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
    Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
    And his commission to employ those soldiers,
    So levied as before, against the Polack;
    With an entreaty, herein further shown,
                                                [Gives a paper.]
    That it might please you to give quiet pass
    Through your dominions for this enterprise,
    On such regards of safety and allowance
    As therein are set down.
  King. It likes us well;
    And at our more consider'd time we'll read,  
    Answer, and think upon this business.
    Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
    Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
    Most welcome home!                       Exeunt Ambassadors.
  Pol. This business is well ended.
    My liege, and madam, to expostulate
    What majesty should be, what duty is,
    Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
    Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
    Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
    And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
    I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
    Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
    What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
    But let that go.
  Queen. More matter, with less art.
  Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
    That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
    And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
    But farewell it, for I will use no art.  
    Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
    That we find out the cause of this effect-
    Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
    For this effect defective comes by cause.
    Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
    Perpend.
    I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
    Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
    Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
                                             [Reads] the letter.
    'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
      Ophelia,'-

    That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
      phrase.
    But you shall hear. Thus:
                                                        [Reads.]
    'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
  Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
  Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful.     [Reads.]  

          'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
            Doubt that the sun doth move;
          Doubt truth to be a liar;
            But never doubt I love.
      'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
    reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
    it. Adieu.
      'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
                                                          HAMLET.'

    This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
    And more above, hath his solicitings,
    As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
    All given to mine ear.
  King. But how hath she
    Receiv'd his love?
  Pol. What do you think of me?
  King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
  Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,  
    When I had seen this hot love on the wing
    (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
    Before my daughter told me), what might you,
    Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
    If I had play'd the desk or table book,
    Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
    Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
    What might you think? No, I went round to work
    And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
    'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
    This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
    That she should lock herself from his resort,
    Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
    Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
    And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
    Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
    Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
    Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
    Into the madness wherein now he raves,
    And all we mourn for.  
  King. Do you think 'tis this?
  Queen. it may be, very like.
  Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
    That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
    When it prov'd otherwise.?
  King. Not that I know.
  Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
      be otherwise.
    If circumstances lead me, I will find
    Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
    Within the centre.
  King. How may we try it further?
  Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
    Here in the lobby.
  Queen. So he does indeed.
  Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
    Be you and I behind an arras then.
    Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
    And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
    Let me be no assistant for a state,  
    But keep a farm and carters.
  King. We will try it.

                 Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.

  Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
  Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
    I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
                       Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
    How does my good Lord Hamlet?
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
  Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
  Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
  Pol. Not I, my lord.
  Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
  Pol. Honest, my lord?
  Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
    pick'd out of ten thousand.
  Pol. That's very true, my lord.
  Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god  
    kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
  Pol. I have, my lord.
  Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
    as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
  Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
    he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
    gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
    for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
    read, my lord?
  Ham. Words, words, words.
  Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
  Ham. Between who?
  Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
  Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
    have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
    purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
    plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
    sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
    not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
    should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.  
  Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
   Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
  Ham. Into my grave?
  Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
    his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
    reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
    will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
    him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
    my leave of you.
  Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
    willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
    life,

                    Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.

  Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
  Ham. These tedious old fools!
  Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
  Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
                                                Exit [Polonius].  
  Guil. My honour'd lord!
  Ros. My most dear lord!
  Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
    Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
  Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
  Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
    On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
  Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
  Ros. Neither, my lord.
  Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
    favours?
  Guil. Faith, her privates we.
  Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
    strumpet. What news ?
  Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
  Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
    question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
    deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
    hither?
  Guil. Prison, my lord?  
  Ham. Denmark's a prison.
  Ros. Then is the world one.
  Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
    dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
  Ros. We think not so, my lord.
  Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
    or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
  Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
    mind.
  Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
    king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
  Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
    the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
  Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
  Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
    it is but a shadow's shadow.
  Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
    heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
    fay, I cannot reason.
  Both. We'll wait upon you.  
  Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
    servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
    dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
    make you at Elsinore?
  Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
  Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
    and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
    you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
    visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
  Guil. What should we say, my lord?
  Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
    there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
    have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
    have sent for you.
  Ros. To what end, my lord?
  Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
    of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
    obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
    better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
    me, whether you were sent for or no.  
  Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
  Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
    not off.
  Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
  Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
    discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
    feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
    mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
    heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
    seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
    air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
    roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
    to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
    piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
    faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
    action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
    beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
    is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
    neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
  Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.  
  Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
  Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
    entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
    on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
  Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
    have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
    target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
    end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
    lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
    freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
    they?
  Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
    tragedians of the city.
  Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
    reputation and profit, was better both ways.
  Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
    innovation.
  Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
    city? Are they so follow'd?
  Ros. No indeed are they not.  
  Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
  Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
    sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
    of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
    the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
    them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
    dare scarce come thither.
  Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
    escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
    sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
    themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
    are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
    against their own succession.
  Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
    holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
    while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
    went to cuffs in the question.
  Ham. Is't possible?
  Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
  Ham. Do the boys carry it away?  
  Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
  Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
    those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
    twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
    little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
    philosophy could find it out.

                     Flourish for the Players.

  Guil. There are the players.
  Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
    appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
    with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
    tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
    entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
    and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
  Guil. In what, my dear lord?
  Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
    know a hawk from a handsaw.
  
                            Enter Polonius.

  Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
  Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
    That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
    clouts.
  Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
    man is twice a child.
  Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
   You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
  Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
  Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
    Rome-
  Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
  Ham. Buzz, buzz!
  Pol. Upon my honour-
  Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
  Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
    history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
    tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene  
    individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
    Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
    the only men.
  Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
  Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
  Ham. Why,

         'One fair daughter, and no more,
           The which he loved passing well.'

  Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
  Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
  Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
    love passing well.
  Ham. Nay, that follows not.
  Pol. What follows then, my lord?
  Ham. Why,

           'As by lot, God wot,'

 and then, you know,
  
           'It came to pass, as most like it was.'

    The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
    where my abridgment comes.

                     Enter four or five Players.

    You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
    well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
    valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
    Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
    ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
    altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
    uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
    all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
    anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
    taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
  1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
    or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd  
    not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
    receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
    the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
    set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
    there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
    nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
    affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
    sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
    I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
    especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
    your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:

         'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'

    'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:

         'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
         Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
         When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
         Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd  
         With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
         Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
         With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
         Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
         That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
         To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
         And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
         With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
         Old grandsire Priam seeks.'

    So, proceed you.
  Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
     discretion.

  1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
      Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
      Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
      Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
      Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
      But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword  
      Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
      Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
      Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
      Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
      Which was declining on the milky head
      Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
      So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
      And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
      Did nothing.
      But, as we often see, against some storm,
      A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
      The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
      As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
      Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
      Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
      And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
      On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
      With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
      Now falls on Priam.
      Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,  
      In general synod take away her power;
      Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
      And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
      As low as to the fiends!

  Pol. This is too long.
  Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
    He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
    Hecuba.

  1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'

  Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
  Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.

  1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
      With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
      Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
      About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
      A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-  
      Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
      'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
      But if the gods themselves did see her then,
      When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
      In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
      The instant burst of clamour that she made
      (Unless things mortal move them not at all)
      Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
      And passion in the gods.'

  Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
    eyes. Prithee no more!
  Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
    Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
    hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
    chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
    bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
  Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
  Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
    desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own  
    honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
    your bounty. Take them in.
  Pol. Come, sirs.
  Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
                 Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
    Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
    Gonzago'?
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
    speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
    insert in't, could you not?
  1. Play. Ay, my lord.
  Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
                                            [Exit First Player.]
    My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
    Elsinore.
  Ros. Good my lord!
  Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
                            [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
    Now I am alone.  
    O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
    Is it not monstrous that this player here,
    But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
    Could force his soul so to his own conceit
    That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
    Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
    A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
    With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
    For Hecuba!
    What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
    That he should weep for her? What would he do,
    Had he the motive and the cue for passion
    That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
    And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
    Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
    Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
    The very faculties of eyes and ears.
    Yet I,
    A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
    Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,  
    And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
    Upon whose property and most dear life
    A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
    Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
    Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
    Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
    As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
    'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
    But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
    To make oppression bitter, or ere this
    I should have fatted all the region kites
    With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
    Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
    O, vengeance!
    Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
    That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
    Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
    Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
    And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
    A scullion!  
    Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
    That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
    Have by the very cunning of the scene
    Been struck so to the soul that presently
    They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
    For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
    With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
    Play something like the murther of my father
    Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
    I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
    I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
    May be a devil; and the devil hath power
    T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
    Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
    As he is very potent with such spirits,
    Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
    More relative than this. The play's the thing
    Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King.         Exit.





ACT III. Scene I.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.

  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
    Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
    Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
    With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
  Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
    But from what cause he will by no means speak.
  Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
    But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
    When we would bring him on to some confession
    Of his true state.
  Queen. Did he receive you well?
  Ros. Most like a gentleman.
  Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
  Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
    Most free in his reply.
  Queen. Did you assay him  
    To any pastime?
  Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
    We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
    And there did seem in him a kind of joy
    To hear of it. They are here about the court,
    And, as I think, they have already order
    This night to play before him.
  Pol. 'Tis most true;
    And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
    To hear and see the matter.
  King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
    To hear him so inclin'd.
    Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
    And drive his purpose on to these delights.
  Ros. We shall, my lord.
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
    For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
    That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
    Affront Ophelia.  
    Her father and myself (lawful espials)
    Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
    We may of their encounter frankly judge
    And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
    If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
    That thus he suffers for.
  Queen. I shall obey you;
    And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
    That your good beauties be the happy cause
    Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
    Will bring him to his wonted way again,
    To both your honours.
  Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
                                                   [Exit Queen.]
  Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
    We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
    That show of such an exercise may colour
    Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
    'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
    And pious action we do sugar o'er  
    The Devil himself.
  King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
    How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
    The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
    Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
    Than is my deed to my most painted word.
    O heavy burthen!
  Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
                                      Exeunt King and Polonius].

                           Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
    Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
    The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
    Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
    And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
    No more; and by a sleep to say we end
    The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
    That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation  
    Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
    To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
    For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
    When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
    Must give us pause. There's the respect
    That makes calamity of so long life.
    For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
    Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
    The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
    The insolence of office, and the spurns
    That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
    When he himself might his quietus make
    With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
    To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
    But that the dread of something after death-
    The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
    No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
    And makes us rather bear those ills we have
    Than fly to others that we know not of?
    Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,  
    And thus the native hue of resolution
    Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
    And enterprises of great pith and moment
    With this regard their currents turn awry
    And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
    The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
    Be all my sins rememb'red.
  Oph. Good my lord,
    How does your honour for this many a day?
  Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
  Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
    That I have longed long to re-deliver.
    I pray you, now receive them.
  Ham. No, not I!
    I never gave you aught.
  Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
    And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
    As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
    Take these again; for to the noble mind
    Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.  
    There, my lord.
  Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
  Oph. My lord?
  Ham. Are you fair?
  Oph. What means your lordship?
  Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
    discourse to your beauty.
  Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
  Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
    honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
    translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
    but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
  Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
  Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
    inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
    not.
  Oph. I was the more deceived.
  Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
    sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
    me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.  
    I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
    beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
    them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
    do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
    believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
    father?
  Oph. At home, my lord.
  Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
    nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
  Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
  Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
    be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
    calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
    needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
    monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
    Farewell.
  Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
  Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
    given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
    amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your  
    wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
    me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
    married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
    they are. To a nunnery, go.                            Exit.
  Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
    The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
    Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
    The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
    Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
    And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
    That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
    Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
    Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
    That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
    Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
    T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!

                   Enter King and Polonius.

  King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;  
    Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
    Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
    O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
    And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
    Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
    I have in quick determination
    Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
    For the demand of our neglected tribute.
    Haply the seas, and countries different,
    With variable objects, shall expel
    This something-settled matter in his heart,
    Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
    From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
    The origin and commencement of his grief
    Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
    You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
    We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
    But if you hold it fit, after the play
    Let his queen mother all alone entreat him  
    To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
    And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
    Of all their conference. If she find him not,
    To England send him; or confine him where
    Your wisdom best shall think.
  King. It shall be so.
    Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.

Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.

  Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
    trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
    players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
    not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
    gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
    whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
    temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
    soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
    tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
    (for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
    shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
    Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
  Player. I warrant your honour.
  Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
    tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
    this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
    nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,  
    whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
    'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
    scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
    form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
    it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
    grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
    o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
    have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
    speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
    Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
    strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
    journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
    humanity so abominably.
  Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
  Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
    speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
    that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
    spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
    question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
    and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go  
    make you ready.
                                                 Exeunt Players.

            Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.

    How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
  Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
  Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
    help to hasten them?
  Both. We will, my lord.                       Exeunt they two.
  Ham. What, ho, Horatio!

                      Enter Horatio.

  Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
  Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
    As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
  Hor. O, my dear lord!
  Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
    For what advancement may I hope from thee,  
    That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
    To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
    No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
    And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
    Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
    Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
    And could of men distinguish, her election
    Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
    As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
    A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
    Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
    Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
    That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
    To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
    That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
    In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
    As I do thee. Something too much of this I
    There is a play to-night before the King.
    One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
    Which I have told thee, of my father's death.  
    I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
    Even with the very comment of thy soul
    Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
    Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
    It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
    And my imaginations are as foul
    As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
    For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
    And after we will both our judgments join
    In censure of his seeming.
  Hor. Well, my lord.
    If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
    And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.

    Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
    march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
      Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
                       carrying torches.

  Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.  
    Get you a place.
  King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
  Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
    promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
  King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
    mine.
  Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
    i' th' university, you say?
  Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
  Ham. What did you enact?
  Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
    kill'd me.
  Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
    the players ready.
  Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
  Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
  Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
  Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
  Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
                                  [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]  
  Oph. No, my lord.
  Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
  Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
  Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
  Oph. What is, my lord?
  Ham. Nothing.
  Oph. You are merry, my lord.
  Ham. Who, I?
  Oph. Ay, my lord.
  Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
    For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
    within 's two hours.
  Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
  Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
    suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
    yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
    half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
    shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose  
    epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'

               Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.

    Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
    him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
    unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
    neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
    him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
    crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
    leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
    passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
    comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
    carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
    seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
    his love.
                                                         Exeunt.

  Oph. What means this, my lord?
  Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.  
  Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.

                      Enter Prologue.

  Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
    they'll tell all.
  Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
  Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
    show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
  Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.

    Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
      Here stooping to your clemency,
      We beg your hearing patiently.                     [Exit.]

  Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
  Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
  Ham. As woman's love.

              Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.  

    King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
      Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
      And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
      About the world have times twelve thirties been,
      Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
      Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
    Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
      Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
      But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
      So far from cheer and from your former state.
      That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
      Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
      For women's fear and love holds quantity,
      In neither aught, or in extremity.
      Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
      And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
      Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
      Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
    King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;  
      My operant powers their functions leave to do.
      And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
      Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
      For husband shalt thou-
    Queen. O, confound the rest!
      Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
      When second husband let me be accurst!
      None wed the second but who killed the first.

  Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!

    Queen. The instances that second marriage move
      Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
      A second time I kill my husband dead
      When second husband kisses me in bed.
    King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
      But what we do determine oft we break.
      Purpose is but the slave to memory,
      Of violent birth, but poor validity;
      Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,  
      But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
      Most necessary 'tis that we forget
      To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
      What to ourselves in passion we propose,
      The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
      The violence of either grief or joy
      Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
      Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
      Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
      This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
      That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
      For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
      Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
      The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
      The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
      And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
      For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
      And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
      Directly seasons him his enemy.
      But, orderly to end where I begun,  
      Our wills and fates do so contrary run
      That our devices still are overthrown;
      Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
      So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
      But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
    Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
      Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
      To desperation turn my trust and hope,
      An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
      Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
      Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
      Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
      If, once a widow, ever I be wife!

  Ham. If she should break it now!

    King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
      My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
      The tedious day with sleep.
    Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,  
                                                    [He] sleeps.
      And never come mischance between us twain!
Exit.

  Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
  Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
  Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
  King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
  Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
    world.
  King. What do you call the play?
  Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
    image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
    his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
    work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
    souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
    are unwrung.

                         Enter Lucianus.
  
    This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
  Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
  Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
    the puppets dallying.
  Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
  Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
  Oph. Still better, and worse.
  Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
    thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
    bellow for revenge.

    Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
      Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
      Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
      With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
      Thy natural magic and dire property
      On wholesome life usurp immediately.
                                   Pours the poison in his ears.

  Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.  
    The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
    shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
  Oph. The King rises.
  Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
  Queen. How fares my lord?
  Pol. Give o'er the play.
  King. Give me some light! Away!
  All. Lights, lights, lights!
                              Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
  Ham.   Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
          The hart ungalled play;
         For some must watch, while some must sleep:
          Thus runs the world away.
    Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
    fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
    shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
  Hor. Half a share.
  Ham.   A whole one I!
         For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
           This realm dismantled was  
         Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
           A very, very- pajock.
  Hor. You might have rhym'd.
  Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
    pound! Didst perceive?
  Hor. Very well, my lord.
  Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
  Hor. I did very well note him.
  Ham.   Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
         For if the King like not the comedy,
         Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
    Come, some music!

                Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.

  Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
  Ham. Sir, a whole history.
  Guil. The King, sir-
  Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
  Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.  
  Ham. With drink, sir?
  Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
  Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
    the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
    plunge him into far more choler.
  Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
    not so wildly from my affair.
  Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
  Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
    hath sent me to you.
  Ham. You are welcome.
  Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
    If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
    your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
    shall be the end of my business.
  Ham. Sir, I cannot.
  Guil. What, my lord?
  Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
    answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
    my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you  
    say-
  Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
    amazement and admiration.
  Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
    sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
  Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
  Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
    further trade with us?
  Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
  Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
  Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
    bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
    your friend.
  Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
  Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
    for your succession in Denmark?
  Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
    musty.

                     Enter the Players with recorders.  

    O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
    you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
    into a toil?
  Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
  Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
  Guil. My lord, I cannot.
  Ham. I pray you.
  Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
  Ham. I do beseech you.
  Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
  Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
    fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
    discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
  Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
    have not the skill.
  Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
    would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
    pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
    lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,  
    excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
    speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
    pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
    you cannot play upon me.

                        Enter Polonius.

    God bless you, sir!
  Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
  Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
  Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
  Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
  Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
  Ham. Or like a whale.
  Pol. Very like a whale.
  Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
    top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
  Pol. I will say so.                                      Exit.
  Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]  
    'Tis now the very witching time of night,
    When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
    Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
    And do such bitter business as the day
    Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
    O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
    The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
    Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
    I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
    My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
    How in my words somever she be shent,
    To give them seals never, my soul, consent!             Exit.




Scene III.
A room in the Castle.

Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.

  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
    To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
    I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
    And he to England shall along with you.
    The terms of our estate may not endure
    Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
    Out of his lunacies.
  Guil. We will ourselves provide.
    Most holy and religious fear it is
    To keep those many many bodies safe
    That live and feed upon your Majesty.
  Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
    With all the strength and armour of the mind
    To keep itself from noyance; but much more
    That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
    The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
    Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw  
    What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
    Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
    To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
    Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
    Each small annexment, petty consequence,
    Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
    Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
  King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
    For we will fetters put upon this fear,
    Which now goes too free-footed.
  Both. We will haste us.
                                               Exeunt Gentlemen.

                   Enter Polonius.

  Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
    Behind the arras I'll convey myself
    To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
    And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
    'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,  
    Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
    The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
    I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
    And tell you what I know.
  King. Thanks, dear my lord.
                                                Exit [Polonius].
    O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
    It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
    A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
    Though inclination be as sharp as will.
    My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
    And, like a man to double business bound,
    I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
    And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
    Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
    Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
    To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
    But to confront the visage of offence?
    And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
    To be forestalled ere we come to fall,  
    Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
    My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
    Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
    That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
    Of those effects for which I did the murther-
    My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
    May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
    In the corrupted currents of this world
    Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
    And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
    Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
    There is no shuffling; there the action lies
    In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
    Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
    To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
    Try what repentance can. What can it not?
    Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
    O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
    O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
    Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.  
    Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
    Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
    All may be well.                                  He kneels.

                         Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
    And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
    And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
    A villain kills my father; and for that,
    I, his sole son, do this same villain send
    To heaven.
    Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
    He took my father grossly, full of bread,
    With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
    And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
    But in our circumstance and course of thought,
    'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
    To take him in the purging of his soul,
    When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?  
    No.
    Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
    When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
    Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
    At gaming, swearing, or about some act
    That has no relish of salvation in't-
    Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
    And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
    As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
    This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.              Exit.
  King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
    Words without thoughts never to heaven go.             Exit.




Scene IV.
The Queen's closet.

Enter Queen and Polonius.

  Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
    Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
    And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
    Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
    Pray you be round with him.
  Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
  Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
                              [Polonius hides behind the arras.]

                          Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
  Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
  Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
  Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
  Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
  Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?  
  Ham. What's the matter now?
  Queen. Have you forgot me?
  Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
    You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
    And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
  Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
  Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
    You go not till I set you up a glass
    Where you may see the inmost part of you.
  Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
    Help, help, ho!
  Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
  Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
            [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
  Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
  Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
  Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
  Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
  Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
    As kill a king, and marry with his brother.  
  Queen. As kill a king?
  Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
                         [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
    Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
    I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
    Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
    Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
    And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
    If it be made of penetrable stuff;
    If damned custom have not braz'd it so
    That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
  Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
    In noise so rude against me?
  Ham. Such an act
    That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
    Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
    From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
    And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
    As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
    As from the body of contraction plucks  
    The very soul, and sweet religion makes
    A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
    Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
    With tristful visage, as against the doom,
    Is thought-sick at the act.
  Queen. Ay me, what act,
    That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
  Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
    The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
    See what a grace was seated on this brow;
    Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
    An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
    A station like the herald Mercury
    New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
    A combination and a form indeed
    Where every god did seem to set his seal
    To give the world assurance of a man.
    This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
    Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
    Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?  
    Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
    And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
    You cannot call it love; for at your age
    The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
    And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
    Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
    Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
    Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
    Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
    But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
    To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
    That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
    Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
    Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
    Or but a sickly part of one true sense
    Could not so mope.
    O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
    If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
    To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
    And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame  
    When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
    Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
    And reason panders will.
  Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
    Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
    And there I see such black and grained spots
    As will not leave their tinct.
  Ham. Nay, but to live
    In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
    Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
    Over the nasty sty!
  Queen. O, speak to me no more!
    These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
    No more, sweet Hamlet!
  Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
    A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
    Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
    A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
    That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
    And put it in his pocket!  
  Queen. No more!

                Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.

  Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
    Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
    You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
  Queen. Alas, he's mad!
  Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
    That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
    Th' important acting of your dread command?
    O, say!
  Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
    Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
    But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
    O, step between her and her fighting soul
    Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
    Speak to her, Hamlet.
  Ham. How is it with you, lady?
  Queen. Alas, how is't with you,  
    That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
    And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
    Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
    And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
    Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
    Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
    Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
    Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
  Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
    His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
    Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
    Lest with this piteous action you convert
    My stern effects. Then what I have to do
    Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
  Queen. To whom do you speak this?
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
  Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
  Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
  Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
  Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!  
    My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
    Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
                                                     Exit Ghost.
  Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
    This bodiless creation ecstasy
    Is very cunning in.
  Ham. Ecstasy?
    My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
    And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
    That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
    And I the matter will reword; which madness
    Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
    Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
    That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
    It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
    Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
    Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
    Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
    And do not spread the compost on the weeds
    To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;  
    For in the fatness of these pursy times
    Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
    Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
  Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
  Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
    And live the purer with the other half,
    Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
    Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
    That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
    Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
    That to the use of actions fair and good
    He likewise gives a frock or livery,
    That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
    And that shall lend a kind of easiness
    To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
    For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
    And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
    With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
    And when you are desirous to be blest,
    I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,  
    I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
    To punish me with this, and this with me,
    That I must be their scourge and minister.
    I will bestow him, and will answer well
    The death I gave him. So again, good night.
    I must be cruel, only to be kind;
    Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
    One word more, good lady.
  Queen. What shall I do?
  Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
    Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
    Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
    And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
    Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
    Make you to ravel all this matter out,
    That I essentially am not in madness,
    But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
    For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
    Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
    Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?  
    No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
    Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
    Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
    To try conclusions, in the basket creep
    And break your own neck down.
  Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
    And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
    What thou hast said to me.
  Ham. I must to England; you know that?
  Queen. Alack,
    I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
  Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
    Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
    They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
    And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
    For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
    Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
    But I will delve one yard below their mines
    And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
    When in one line two crafts directly meet.  
    This man shall set me packing.
    I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
    Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
    Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
    Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
    Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
    Good night, mother.
                  [Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
                                                       Polonius.





ACT IV. Scene I.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.

  King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
    You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
    Where is your son?
  Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
                          [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
    Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
  King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
  Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
    Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
    Behind the arras hearing something stir,
    Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
    And in this brainish apprehension kills
    The unseen good old man.
  King. O heavy deed!
    It had been so with us, had we been there.
    His liberty is full of threats to all-
    To you yourself, to us, to every one.  
    Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
    It will be laid to us, whose providence
    Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
    This mad young man. But so much was our love
    We would not understand what was most fit,
    But, like the owner of a foul disease,
    To keep it from divulging, let it feed
    Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
  Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
    O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
    Among a mineral of metals base,
    Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
  King. O Gertrude, come away!
    The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
    But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
    We must with all our majesty and skill
    Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!

             Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
  
    Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
    Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
    And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
    Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
    Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
                          Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
    Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
    And let them know both what we mean to do
    And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
    Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
    As level as the cannon to his blank,
    Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
    And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
    My soul is full of discord and dismay.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.

Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Safely stow'd.
  Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
  Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.

               Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.

  Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
  Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
    And bear it to the chapel.
  Ham. Do not believe it.
  Ros. Believe what?
  Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
    demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
    of a king?
  Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
  Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,  
    his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
    the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
    first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
    glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
    again.
  Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
  Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
  Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
    the King.
  Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
    The King is a thing-
  Guil. A thing, my lord?
  Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene III.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

Enter King.

  King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
    How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
    Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
    He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
    Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
    And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
    But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
    This sudden sending him away must seem
    Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
    By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
    Or not at all.

                    Enter Rosencrantz.

    How now O What hath befall'n?
  Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
    We cannot get from him.  
  King. But where is he?
  Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
  King. Bring him before us.
  Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.

        Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].

  King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
  Ham. At supper.
  King. At supper? Where?
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
    convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
    only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
    we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
    is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
    end.
  King. Alas, alas!
  Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
    of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
  King. What dost thou mean by this?  
  Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
    the guts of a beggar.
  King. Where is Polonius?
  Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
    there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
    find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
    the stair, into the lobby.
  King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
  Ham. He will stay till you come.
                                            [Exeunt Attendants.]
  King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
    Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
    For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
    With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
    The bark is ready and the wind at help,
    Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
    For England.
  Ham. For England?
  King. Ay, Hamlet.
  Ham. Good.  
  King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
  Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
    Farewell, dear mother.
  King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
  Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
    one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Exit.
  King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
    Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
    Away! for everything is seal'd and done
    That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
                            Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
    And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
    As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
    Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
    After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
    Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
    Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
    By letters congruing to that effect,
    The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;  
    For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
    And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
    Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.             Exit.





Scene IV.
Near Elsinore.

Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.

  For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
    Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
    Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
    Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
    if that his Majesty would aught with us,
    We shall express our duty in his eye;
    And let him know so.
  Capt. I will do't, my lord.
  For. Go softly on.
                                   Exeunt [all but the Captain].

       Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.

  Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
  Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
  Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
  Capt. Against some part of Poland.  
  Ham. Who commands them, sir?
  Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
  Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
    Or for some frontier?
  Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
    We go to gain a little patch of ground
    That hath in it no profit but the name.
    To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
    Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
    A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
  Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
  Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
  Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
    Will not debate the question of this straw.
    This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
    That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
    Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
  Capt. God b' wi' you, sir.                             [Exit.]
  Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
  Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.  
                                        [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
    How all occasions do inform against me
    And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
    If his chief good and market of his time
    Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
    Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
    Looking before and after, gave us not
    That capability and godlike reason
    To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
    Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
    Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
    A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
    And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
    Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
    Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
    To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
    Witness this army of such mass and charge,
    Led by a delicate and tender prince,
    Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
    Makes mouths at the invisible event,  
    Exposing what is mortal and unsure
    To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
    Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
    Is not to stir without great argument,
    But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
    When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
    That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
    Excitements of my reason and my blood,
    And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
    The imminent death of twenty thousand men
    That for a fantasy and trick of fame
    Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
    Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
    Which is not tomb enough and continent
    To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
    My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!            Exit.





Scene V.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.

Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.

  Queen. I will not speak with her.
  Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
    Her mood will needs be pitied.
  Queen. What would she have?
  Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
    There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
    Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
    That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
    Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
    The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
    And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
    Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
    Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
    Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
  Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
    Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
  Queen. Let her come in.  
                                               [Exit Gentleman.]
    [Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
    Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
    So full of artless jealousy is guilt
    It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.

                 Enter Ophelia distracted.

  Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
  Queen. How now, Ophelia?
  Oph. (sings)
         How should I your true-love know
           From another one?
         By his cockle bat and' staff
           And his sandal shoon.

  Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
  Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.

    (Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,  
              He is dead and gone;
            At his head a grass-green turf,
              At his heels a stone.

    O, ho!
  Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
  Oph. Pray you mark.

    (Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-

                    Enter King.

  Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
  Oph. (Sings)
           Larded all with sweet flowers;
         Which bewept to the grave did not go
           With true-love showers.

  King. How do you, pretty lady?
  Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.  
    Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
    your table!
  King. Conceit upon her father.
  Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
    it means, say you this:

    (Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
              All in the morning bedtime,
            And I a maid at your window,
              To be your Valentine.

            Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
              And dupp'd the chamber door,
            Let in the maid, that out a maid
              Never departed more.

  King. Pretty Ophelia!
  Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!

    [Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,  
              Alack, and fie for shame!
            Young men will do't if they come to't
              By Cock, they are to blame.

            Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
              You promis'd me to wed.'

    He answers:

            'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
              An thou hadst not come to my bed.'

  King. How long hath she been thus?
  Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
    choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
    My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
    counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
    ladies. Good night, good night.                         Exit
  King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
                                                 [Exit Horatio.]  
    O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
    All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
    When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
    But in battalions! First, her father slain;
    Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
    Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
    Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
    For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
    In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
    Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
    Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
    Last, and as such containing as all these,
    Her brother is in secret come from France;
    And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
    Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
    With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
    Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
    Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
    In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
    Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places  
    Give, me superfluous death.                  A noise within.
  Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
  King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.

                     Enter a Messenger.

    What is the matter?
  Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
    The ocean, overpeering of his list,
    Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
    Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
    O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
    And, as the world were now but to begin,
    Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
    The ratifiers and props of every word,
    They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
    Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
    'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
                                                 A noise within.
  Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!  
    O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
  King. The doors are broke.

                    Enter Laertes with others.

  Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
  All. No, let's come in!
  Laer. I pray you give me leave.
  All. We will, we will!
  Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.      [Exeunt his Followers.]
    O thou vile king,
    Give me my father!
  Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
  Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
    Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
    Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
    Of my true mother.
  King. What is the cause, Laertes,
    That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
    Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.  
    There's such divinity doth hedge a king
    That treason can but peep to what it would,
    Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
    Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
    Speak, man.
  Laer. Where is my father?
  King. Dead.
  Queen. But not by him!
  King. Let him demand his fill.
  Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
    To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
    Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
    I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
    That both the world, I give to negligence,
    Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
    Most throughly for my father.
  King. Who shall stay you?
  Laer. My will, not all the world!
    And for my means, I'll husband them so well
    They shall go far with little.  
  King. Good Laertes,
    If you desire to know the certainty
    Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
    That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
    Winner and loser?
  Laer. None but his enemies.
  King. Will you know them then?
  Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
    And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
    Repast them with my blood.
  King. Why, now You speak
    Like a good child and a true gentleman.
    That I am guiltless of your father's death,
    And am most sensibly in grief for it,
    It shall as level to your judgment pierce
    As day does to your eye.
                              A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
  Laer. How now? What noise is that?

                      Enter Ophelia.  

    O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
    Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
    By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
    Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
    Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
    O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
    Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
    Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
    It sends some precious instance of itself
    After the thing it loves.

  Oph. (sings)
         They bore him barefac'd on the bier
           (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
         And in his grave rain'd many a tear.

    Fare you well, my dove!
  Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
    It could not move thus.  
  Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
    how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
    master's daughter.
  Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
  Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
    remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
  Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
  Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
    and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
    O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
    would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
    died. They say he made a good end.

    [Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.

  Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
    She turns to favour and to prettiness.
  Oph. (sings)
         And will he not come again?
         And will he not come again?
           No, no, he is dead;  
           Go to thy deathbed;
         He never will come again.

         His beard was as white as snow,
         All flaxen was his poll.
           He is gone, he is gone,
           And we cast away moan.
         God 'a'mercy on his soul!

    And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
Exit.
  Laer. Do you see this, O God?
  King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
    Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
    Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
    And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
    If by direct or by collateral hand
    They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
    Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
    To you in satisfaction; but if not,  
    Be you content to lend your patience to us,
    And we shall jointly labour with your soul
    To give it due content.
  Laer. Let this be so.
    His means of death, his obscure funeral-
    No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
    No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
    Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
    That I must call't in question.
  King. So you shall;
    And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
    I pray you go with me.
                                                          Exeunt





Scene VI.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.

Enter Horatio with an Attendant.

  Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
  Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
  Hor. Let them come in.
                                               [Exit Attendant.]
    I do not know from what part of the world
    I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.

                          Enter Sailors.

  Sailor. God bless you, sir.
  Hor. Let him bless thee too.
  Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
    sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
    your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
  Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
    this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
    letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of  
    very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
    slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
    boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
    alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
    of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
    them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
    to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
    to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
    light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
    thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
    for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
                            'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'

    Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
    And do't the speedier that you may direct me
    To him from whom you brought them.                   Exeunt.





Scene VII.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.

Enter King and Laertes.

  King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
    And You must put me in your heart for friend,
    Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
    That he which hath your noble father slain
    Pursued my life.
  Laer. It well appears. But tell me
    Why you proceeded not against these feats
    So crimeful and so capital in nature,
    As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
    You mainly were stirr'd up.
  King. O, for two special reasons,
    Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
    But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
    Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
    My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
    She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
    That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,  
    I could not but by her. The other motive
    Why to a public count I might not go
    Is the great love the general gender bear him,
    Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
    Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
    Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
    Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
    Would have reverted to my bow again,
    And not where I had aim'd them.
  Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
    A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
    Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
    Stood challenger on mount of all the age
    For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
  King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
    That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
    That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
    And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
    I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
    And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-  

                 Enter a Messenger with letters.

    How now? What news?
  Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
    This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
  King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
  Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
    They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
    Of him that brought them.
  King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
    Leave us.
                                                 Exit Messenger.
    [Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
    kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
    when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
    occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
                                                     'HAMLET.'
    What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
    Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?  
  Laer. Know you the hand?
  King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
    And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
    Can you advise me?
  Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
    It warms the very sickness in my heart
    That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
    'Thus didest thou.'
  King. If it be so, Laertes
    (As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
    Will you be rul'd by me?
  Laer. Ay my lord,
    So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
  King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
    As checking at his voyage, and that he means
    No more to undertake it, I will work him
    To exploit now ripe in my device,
    Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
    And for his death no wind
    But even his mother shall uncharge the practice  
    And call it accident.
  Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
    The rather, if you could devise it so
    That I might be the organ.
  King. It falls right.
    You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
    And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
    Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
    Did not together pluck such envy from him
    As did that one; and that, in my regard,
    Of the unworthiest siege.
  Laer. What part is that, my lord?
  King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
    Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
    The light and careless livery that it wears
    Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
    Importing health and graveness. Two months since
    Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
    I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
    And they can well on horseback; but this gallant  
    Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
    And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
    As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
    With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
    That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
    Come short of what he did.
  Laer. A Norman was't?
  King. A Norman.
  Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
  King. The very same.
  Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
    And gem of all the nation.
  King. He made confession of you;
    And gave you such a masterly report
    For art and exercise in your defence,
    And for your rapier most especially,
    That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
    If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
    He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
    If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his  
    Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
    That he could nothing do but wish and beg
    Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
    Now, out of this-
  Laer. What out of this, my lord?
  King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
    Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
    A face without a heart,'
  Laer. Why ask you this?
  King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
    But that I know love is begun by time,
    And that I see, in passages of proof,
    Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
    There lives within the very flame of love
    A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
    And nothing is at a like goodness still;
    For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
    Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
    We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
    And hath abatements and delays as many  
    As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
    And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
    That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
    Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
    To show yourself your father's son in deed
    More than in words?
  Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
  King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
    Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
    Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
    Will return'd shall know you are come home.
    We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
    And set a double varnish on the fame
    The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
    And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
    Most generous, and free from all contriving,
    Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
    Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
    A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
    Requite him for your father.  
  Laer. I will do't!
    And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
    I bought an unction of a mountebank,
    So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
    Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
    Collected from all simples that have virtue
    Under the moon, can save the thing from death
    This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
    With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
    It may be death.
  King. Let's further think of this,
    Weigh what convenience both of time and means
    May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
    And that our drift look through our bad performance.
    'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
    Should have a back or second, that might hold
    If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
    We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
    I ha't!
    When in your motion you are hot and dry-  
    As make your bouts more violent to that end-
    And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
    A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
    If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
    Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,

                           Enter Queen.

    How now, sweet queen?
  Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
    So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
  Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
  Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
    That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
    There with fantastic garlands did she come
    Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
    That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
    But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
    There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
    Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,  
    When down her weedy trophies and herself
    Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
    And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
    Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
    As one incapable of her own distress,
    Or like a creature native and indued
    Unto that element; but long it could not be
    Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
    Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
    To muddy death.
  Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
  Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
    And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
    It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
    Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
    The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
    I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
    But that this folly douts it.                          Exit.
  King. Let's follow, Gertrude.  
    How much I had to do to calm his rage I
    Now fear I this will give it start again;
    Therefore let's follow.
                                                         Exeunt.





ACT V. Scene I.
Elsinore. A churchyard.

Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].

  Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
    seeks her own salvation?
  Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
    The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
  Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
    defence?
  Other. Why, 'tis found so.
  Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
    the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
    act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
    argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
  Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
  Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
    man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
    will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
    him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
    guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.  
  Other. But is this law?
  Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
  Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
    gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
  Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
    should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
    more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
    ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
    hold up Adam's profession.
  Other. Was he a gentleman?
  Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
  Other. Why, he had none.
  Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
    The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
    put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
    purpose, confess thyself-
  Other. Go to!
  Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
    shipwright, or the carpenter?
  Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand  
    tenants.
  Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
    But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
    thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
    church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
  Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
    carpenter?
  Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
  Other. Marry, now I can tell!
  Clown. To't.
  Other. Mass, I cannot tell.

                 Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.

  Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
    not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
    question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
    till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
    liquor.
                                            [Exit Second Clown.]  

                       [Clown digs and] sings.

       In youth when I did love, did love,
         Methought it was very sweet;
       To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
         O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.

  Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
    grave-making?
  Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
  Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
    sense.
  Clown. (sings)
         But age with his stealing steps
           Hath clawed me in his clutch,
         And hath shipped me intil the land,
           As if I had never been such.
                                            [Throws up a skull.]
  
  Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
    knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
    did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
    which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
    might it not?
  Hor. It might, my lord.
  Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
    How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
    prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
    it not?
  Hor. Ay, my lord.
  Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
    about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
    and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
    breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
    on't.
  Clown. (Sings)
         A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
           For and a shrouding sheet;
         O, a Pit of clay for to be made  
           For such a guest is meet.
                                      Throws up [another skull].

  Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
    Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
    and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
    him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
    of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
    great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
    fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
    his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
    pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
    his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
    of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
    scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
    more, ha?
  Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
  Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
  Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
  Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I  
    will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
  Clown. Mine, sir.

    [Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
              For such a guest is meet.

  Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
  Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
    For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
  Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
    the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
  Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
  Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
  Clown. For no man, sir.
  Ham. What woman then?
  Clown. For none neither.
  Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
  Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
  Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
    equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
    I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe  
    of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
    his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
  Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
    last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
  Ham. How long is that since?
  Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
    very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
    into England.
  Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
  Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
    or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
  Ham. Why?
  Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
    he.
  Ham. How came he mad?
  Clown. Very strangely, they say.
  Ham. How strangely?
  Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
  Ham. Upon what ground?
  Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy  
    thirty years.
  Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
  Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
    pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
    will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
    you nine year.
  Ham. Why he more than another?
  Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
    keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
    your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
    you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
  Ham. Whose was it?
  Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
  Ham. Nay, I know not.
  Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
    Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
    skull, the King's jester.
  Ham. This?
  Clown. E'en that.
  Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,  
    Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
    hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
    in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
    lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
    now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
    were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
    own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
    chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
    favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
    tell me one thing.
  Hor. What's that, my lord?
  Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
  Hor. E'en so.
  Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
                                          [Puts down the skull.]
  Hor. E'en so, my lord.
  Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
    imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
    stopping a bunghole?
  Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.  
  Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
    enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
    Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
    earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
    was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
    Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
    Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
    O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
    Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
    But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-

    Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
             Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]

    The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
    And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
    The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
    Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
    Couch we awhile, and mark.
                                         [Retires with Horatio.]  
  Laer. What ceremony else?
  Ham. That is Laertes,
    A very noble youth. Mark.
  Laer. What ceremony else?
  Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
    As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
    And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
    She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
    Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
    Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
    Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
    Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
    Of bell and burial.
  Laer. Must there no more be done?
  Priest. No more be done.
    We should profane the service of the dead
    To sing a requiem and such rest to her
    As to peace-parted souls.
  Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
    And from her fair and unpolluted flesh  
    May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
    A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
    When thou liest howling.
  Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
  Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
                                             [Scatters flowers.]
    I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
    I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
    And not have strew'd thy grave.
  Laer. O, treble woe
    Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
    Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
    Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
    Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
                                             Leaps in the grave.
    Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
    Till of this flat a mountain you have made
    T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
    Of blue Olympus.
  Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief  
    Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
    Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
    Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
    Hamlet the Dane.                    [Leaps in after Laertes.
  Laer. The devil take thy soul!
                                            [Grapples with him].
  Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
    I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
    For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
    Yet have I in me something dangerous,
    Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
  King. Pluck thein asunder.
  Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
  All. Gentlemen!
  Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
             [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
                                                         grave.]
  Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
    Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
  Queen. O my son, what theme?  
  Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
    Could not (with all their quantity of love)
    Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
  King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
  Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
  Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
    Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
    Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
    I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
    To outface me with leaping in her grave?
    Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
    And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
    Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
    Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
    Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
    I'll rant as well as thou.
  Queen. This is mere madness;
    And thus a while the fit will work on him.
    Anon, as patient as the female dove
    When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,  
    His silence will sit drooping.
  Ham. Hear you, sir!
    What is the reason that you use me thus?
    I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
    Let Hercules himself do what he may,
    The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
Exit.
  King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
                                                   Exit Horatio.
    [To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
    We'll put the matter to the present push.-
    Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
    This grave shall have a living monument.
    An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
    Till then in patience our proceeding be.
                                                         Exeunt.




Scene II.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.

Enter Hamlet and Horatio.

  Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
    You do remember all the circumstance?
  Hor. Remember it, my lord!
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
    That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
    Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
    And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
    Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
    When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
    There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
    Rough-hew them how we will-
  Hor. That is most certain.
  Ham. Up from my cabin,
    My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
    Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
    Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
    To mine own room again; making so bold  
    (My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
    Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
    (O royal knavery!), an exact command,
    Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
    Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
    With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
    That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
    No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
    My head should be struck off.
  Hor. Is't possible?
  Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
    But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
  Hor. I beseech you.
  Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
    Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
    They had begun the play. I sat me down;
    Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
    I once did hold it, as our statists do,
    A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
    How to forget that learning; but, sir, now  
    It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
    Th' effect of what I wrote?
  Hor. Ay, good my lord.
  Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
    As England was his faithful tributary,
    As love between them like the palm might flourish,
    As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
    And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
    And many such-like as's of great charge,
    That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
    Without debatement further, more or less,
    He should the bearers put to sudden death,
    Not shriving time allow'd.
  Hor. How was this seal'd?
  Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
    I had my father's signet in my purse,
    which was the model of that Danish seal;
    Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
    Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
    The changeling never known. Now, the next day  
    Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
    Thou know'st already.
  Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
  Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
    They are not near my conscience; their defeat
    Does by their own insinuation grow.
    'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
    Between the pass and fell incensed points
    Of mighty opposites.
  Hor. Why, what a king is this!
  Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
    He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
    Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
    Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
    And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
    To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
    To let this canker of our nature come
    In further evil?
  Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
    What is the issue of the business there.  
  Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
    And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
    But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
    That to Laertes I forgot myself,
    For by the image of my cause I see
    The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
    But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
    Into a tow'ring passion.
  Hor. Peace! Who comes here?

                 Enter young Osric, a courtier.

  Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
  Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
    waterfly?
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
  Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
    vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
    lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
    a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.  
  Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
    a thing to you from his Majesty.
  Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
    bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
  Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
  Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
  Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
  Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
  Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
    tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
    he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
  Ham. I beseech you remember.
                           [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
  Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
    newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
    full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
    great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
    or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
    what part a gentleman would see.
  Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I  
    know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
    memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
    But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
    article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
    true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
    would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
  Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
  Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
    rawer breath
  Osr. Sir?
  Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
    tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
  Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
  Osr. Of Laertes?
  Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
    spent.
  Ham. Of him, sir.
  Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
  Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
    much approve me. Well, sir?  
  Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
  Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
    excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
  Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
    by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
  Ham. What's his weapon?
  Osr. Rapier and dagger.
  Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
  Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
    against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
    rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
    so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
    very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
    very liberal conceit.
  Ham. What call you the carriages?
  Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
    ere you had done.
  Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
  Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
    carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.  
    But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
    assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
    bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
  Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
    yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
    laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
    if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
  Ham. How if I answer no?
  Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
  Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
    it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
    brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
    I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
    shame and the odd hits.
  Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
  Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
  Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
  Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
    himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
  Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.  
  Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
    and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
    on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
    a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
    through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
    them to their trial-the bubbles are out,

                            Enter a Lord.

  Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
    brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
    know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
    take longer time.
  Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
    If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
    I be so able as now.
  Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
  Ham. In happy time.
  Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
    Laertes before you fall to play.  
  Ham. She well instructs me.
                                                    [Exit Lord.]
  Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
  Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
    continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
    think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
  Hor. Nay, good my lord -
  Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
    would perhaps trouble a woman.
  Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
    repair hither and say you are not fit.
  Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
    the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
    not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
    the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
    what is't to leave betimes? Let be.

    Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
              Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
               A table and flagons of wine on it.  

  King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
                    [The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
  Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
    But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
    This presence knows,
    And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
    With sore distraction. What I have done
    That might your nature, honour, and exception
    Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
    Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
    If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
    And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
    Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
    Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
    Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
    His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
    Sir, in this audience,
    Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
    Free me so far in your most generous thoughts  
    That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
    And hurt my brother.
  Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
    Whose motive in this case should stir me most
    To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
    I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
    Till by some elder masters of known honour
    I have a voice and precedent of peace
    To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
    I do receive your offer'd love like love,
    And will not wrong it.
  Ham. I embrace it freely,
    And will this brother's wager frankly play.
    Give us the foils. Come on.
  Laer. Come, one for me.
  Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
    Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
    Stick fiery off indeed.
  Laer. You mock me, sir.
  Ham. No, by this bad.  
  King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
    You know the wager?
  Ham. Very well, my lord.
    Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
  King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
    But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
  Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
  Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
                                                Prepare to play.
  Osr. Ay, my good lord.
  King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
    If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
    Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
    Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
    The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
    And in the cup an union shall he throw
    Richer than that which four successive kings
    In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
    And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
    The trumpet to the cannoneer without,  
    The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
    'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
    And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
  Ham. Come on, sir.
  Laer. Come, my lord.                                They play.
  Ham. One.
  Laer. No.
  Ham. Judgment!
  Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
  Laer. Well, again!
  King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
    Here's to thy health.
               [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
    Give him the cup.
  Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
    Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
  Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
  King. Our son shall win.
  Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
    Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.  
    The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
  Ham. Good madam!
  King. Gertrude, do not drink.
  Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.          Drinks.
  King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
  Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
  Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
  Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
  King. I do not think't.
  Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
  Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
    pray You Pass with your best violence;
    I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
  Laer. Say you so? Come on.                               Play.
  Osr. Nothing neither way.
  Laer. Have at you now!
                [Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
                    change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
  King. Part them! They are incens'd.
  Ham. Nay come! again!                         The Queen falls.  
  Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
  Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
  Osr. How is't, Laertes?
  Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
    I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
  Ham. How does the Queen?
  King. She sounds to see them bleed.
  Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
    The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.                 [Dies.]
  Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
    Treachery! Seek it out.
                                                [Laertes falls.]
  Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
    No medicine in the world can do thee good.
    In thee there is not half an hour of life.
    The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
    Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
    Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
    Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
    I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.  
  Ham. The point envenom'd too?
    Then, venom, to thy work.                    Hurts the King.
  All. Treason! treason!
  King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
  Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
    Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
    Follow my mother.                                 King dies.
  Laer. He is justly serv'd.
    It is a poison temper'd by himself.
    Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
    Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
    Nor thine on me!                                       Dies.
  Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
    I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
    You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
    That are but mutes or audience to this act,
    Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
    Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
    But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
    Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright  
    To the unsatisfied.
  Hor. Never believe it.
    I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
    Here's yet some liquor left.
  Ham. As th'art a man,
    Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
    O good Horatio, what a wounded name
    (Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
    If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
    Absent thee from felicity awhile,
    And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
    To tell my story.         [March afar off, and shot within.]
    What warlike noise is this?
  Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
    To the ambassadors of England gives
    This warlike volley.
  Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
    The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
    I cannot live to hear the news from England,
    But I do prophesy th' election lights  
    On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
    So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
    Which have solicited- the rest is silence.             Dies.
  Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
    And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
                                                 [March within.]
    Why does the drum come hither?

    Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
                  Colours, and Attendants.

  Fort. Where is this sight?
  Hor. What is it you will see?
    If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
  Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
    What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
    That thou so many princes at a shot
    So bloodily hast struck.
  Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
    And our affairs from England come too late.  
    The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
    To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
    That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
    Where should We have our thanks?
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
    Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
    He never gave commandment for their death.
    But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
    You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
    Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
    High on a stage be placed to the view;
    And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
    How these things came about. So shall You hear
    Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
    Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
    Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
    And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
    Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
    Truly deliver.
  Fort. Let us haste to hear it,  
    And call the noblest to the audience.
    For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
    I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
    Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
  Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
    And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
    But let this same be presently perform'd,
    Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
    On plots and errors happen.
  Fort. Let four captains
    Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
    For he was likely, had he been put on,
    To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
    The soldiers' music and the rites of war
    Speak loudly for him.
    Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
    Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
    Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
            Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
                                                   are shot off.  


THE END
